
# Tenapanor mechanisms IBS-C https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10885421/

## around mechanism
 @media screen and (min-width: 64em) { div.pmc-wm { background: repeat-y; background-image: url("data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' width='20' height='350' xmlns:xlink='http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink'%3E%3Cdefs%3E%3Cfilter x='-.02' y='0' width='1.05' height='1' id='c'%3E%3CfeFlood flood-color='%23FFF'/%3E%3CfeComposite in='SourceGraphic'/%3E%3C/filter%3E%3Ctext id='b' font-family='Helvetica' font-size='11pt' style='opacity:1;fill:%23005ea2;stroke:none;text-anchor:middle' x='175' y='14'%3E%3C/text%3E%3Cpath id='a' style='fill:%23005ea2' d='M0 8h350v3H0z'/%3E%3C/defs%3E%3Cuse xlink:href='%23a' transform='rotate(90 10 10)'/%3E%3Cuse xlink:href='%23b' transform='rotate(90 10 10)' filter='url(%23c)'/%3E%3C/svg%3E"); padding-left: 3rem; } } Mechanism of Action Considerations in the Management of IBS-C - PMC Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Search Log in Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Search… Search NCBI Primary site navigation Search Logged in as: Dashboard Publications Account settings Log in Search PMC Full-Text Archive Search in PMC Journal List User Guide PERMALINK Copy As a library, NLM provides access to scientific literature. Inclusion in an NLM database does not imply endorsement of, or agreement with, the contents by NLM or the National Institutes of Health. Learn more: PMC Disclaimer | PMC Copyright Notice Gastroenterol Hepatol (N Y) . 2023 Dec;19(12):749–756. Search in PMC Search in PubMed View in NLM Catalog Add to search Mechanism of Action Considerations in the Management of IBS-C Darren M Brenner Darren M Brenner , MD 1 Professor of Medicine (Gastroenterology and Hepatology) and Surgery Northwestern Medicine Northwestern University—Feinberg School of Medicine Chicago, Illinois Find articles by Darren M Brenner 1 Author information Copyright and License information 1 Professor of Medicine (Gastroenterology and Hepatology) and Surgery Northwestern Medicine Northwestern University—Feinberg School of Medicine Chicago, Illinois ✉ Dr Brenner is a speaker, advisor, and consultant and has participated in educational programs for American Gastroenterological Association (AGA), Anji Pharmaceuticals, Ardelyx,

## around tenapanor
ts in patients with IBS-C. 20 Mechanisms of Action of the Pharmacologic Agents Used in the Management of IBS-C Although over-the-counter laxatives can bring patients some relief of their bowel symptoms, they have little effect on abdominal pain, discomfort, or bloating—symptoms that significantly affect the QoL of individuals with IBSC. Often these are the symptoms ultimately prompting patients to present to clinicians for treatment. There are now several FDA-approved options available for treating IBS-C ( Figure 1 and Table 4 ). 22 - 32 The first of these to gain FDA approval was lubiprostone in 2006, and this drug was approved specifically for women. 22 This was followed by the approval of linaclotide in 2012 and plecanatide in 2017. 23 , 24 The most recently approved drug for IBS-C was tenapanor in 2019. 25 Tegaserod, a serotonergic agent, was approved in 2002 but withdrawn because of concerns about potential cardiovascular toxicities, then reintroduced and recently again voluntarily withdrawn from the market in 2022 owing to business decisions and not the safety or efficacy profile of the agent. 33 Figure 1. Open in a new tab Currently available FDA-approved agents with indications for the treatment of IBS-C. 22 - 25 FDA, US Food and Drug Administration; GC-C, guanylate cyclase-C; IBS-C, irritable bowel syndrome with constipation; NHE3, sodium/hydrogen exchanger isoform 3. Table 4. Currently Available FDA-Approved Agents With Indications for the Treatment of IBS-C Agent MOA Pivotal efficacy data Toxicity profile Guideline recommendations 1 , 21 Lubiprostone 26 (FDA approval: 2006) Secretagogue CIC-2 chloride channel activator Combined analysis of 2 phase 3 trials Overall responder status a : 17.9% vs 10.1% with placebo; P =.001 GI-related AEs (including nausea, diarrhea, and abdominal distension): similar incidence in lubiprostone and placebo groups Discontinuation due to AEs: 4.7% and 5.1% (lubiprostone group) vs 4.6% and 7.7% (placebo group) ACG: chloride channel activators are recommended to treat global IBS-C symptoms (strong recommendation) AGA: suggests using in patients with IBS-C (conditional suggestion) Linaclotide 27 , 28 (FDA approval: 2012) Secretagogue GC-C agonist 26-week phase 3 study FDA overall response endpoint b : 33.7% vs 13.9% with placebo; P <.0001 12-week phase 3 study FDA overall response endpoint b : 33.6% vs 21.0% with placebo; P <.0001 Diarrhea (most common AE): 19.7% (linaclotide group) vs 2.5% (placebo group) in 26-week study Discontinuation due to diarrhea: 5.7% (linaclotide group) vs 0.3% (placebo group) in 12-week stud

## around NHE3
these to gain FDA approval was lubiprostone in 2006, and this drug was approved specifically for women. 22 This was followed by the approval of linaclotide in 2012 and plecanatide in 2017. 23 , 24 The most recently approved drug for IBS-C was tenapanor in 2019. 25 Tegaserod, a serotonergic agent, was approved in 2002 but withdrawn because of concerns about potential cardiovascular toxicities, then reintroduced and recently again voluntarily withdrawn from the market in 2022 owing to business decisions and not the safety or efficacy profile of the agent. 33 Figure 1. Open in a new tab Currently available FDA-approved agents with indications for the treatment of IBS-C. 22 - 25 FDA, US Food and Drug Administration; GC-C, guanylate cyclase-C; IBS-C, irritable bowel syndrome with constipation; NHE3, sodium/hydrogen exchanger isoform 3. Table 4. Currently Available FDA-Approved Agents With Indications for the Treatment of IBS-C Agent MOA Pivotal efficacy data Toxicity profile Guideline recommendations 1 , 21 Lubiprostone 26 (FDA approval: 2006) Secretagogue CIC-2 chloride channel activator Combined analysis of 2 phase 3 trials Overall responder status a : 17.9% vs 10.1% with placebo; P =.001 GI-related AEs (including nausea, diarrhea, and abdominal distension): similar incidence in lubiprostone and placebo groups Discontinuation due to AEs: 4.7% and 5.1% (lubiprostone group) vs 4.6% and 7.7% (placebo group) ACG: chloride channel activators are recommended to treat global IBS-C symptoms (strong recommendation) AGA: suggests using in patients with IBS-C (conditional suggestion) Linaclotide 27 , 28 (FDA approval: 2012) Secretagogue GC-C agonist 26-week phase 3 study FDA overall response endpoint b : 33.7% vs 13.9% with placebo; P <.0001 12-week phase 3 study FDA overall response endpoint b : 33.6% vs 21.0% with placebo; P <.0001 Diarrhea (most common AE): 19.7% (linaclotide group) vs 2.5% (placebo group) in 26-week study Discontinuation due to diarrhea: 5.7% (linaclotide group) vs 0.3% (placebo group) in 12-week study ACG: GC-C agonists are recommended to treat global IBS-C symptoms (strong recommendation) AGA: suggests using in patients with IBS-C (strong recommendation) Plecanatide 29 (FDA approval: 2017) Secretagogue GC-C agonist Study 1 FDA overall response endpoint b : 30.2% (3 mg) and 29.5% (6 mg) vs 17.8% with placebo; P <.001 Study 2 FDA overall response endpoint b : 21.5% (3 mg) and 24.0% (6 mg) vs 14.2% with placebo; P =.009 for 3 mg vs placebo and P <.001 for 6 mg vs placebo Diarrhea (most common AE): 4.3% and 4.0% (plecanatide 3 mg and 6 mg groups, re

## around TRPV1
se-C as a therapeutic target in gastrointestinal disorders. Gut. 2018;67(8):1543–1552. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2018-316029. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] Castro J, Harrington AM, Hughes PA et al. Linaclotide inhibits colonic nociceptors and relieves abdominal pain via guanylate cyclase-C and extracellular cyclic guanosine 3′,5′-monophosphate. Gastroenterology. 2013;145(6):1334–1346.e1-11. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2013.08.017. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] Sinagra E, Rossi F, Raimondo D et al. Tenapanor for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation. Expert Rev Clin Pharmacol. 2020;13(5):473–479. doi: 10.1080/17512433.2020.1762570. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] Li Q, King A, Liu L et al. Tenapanor reduces IBS pain through inhibition of TRPV1-dependent neuronal hyperexcitability in vivo. Poster P2027 presented at the American College of Gastroenterology Annual Scientific Meeting; October 13–18, 2017; Orlando, FL, US. Am J Gastroenterol. 2017;112(suppl):S255. [ Google Scholar ] Brenner DM, Harris LA, Chang CH et al. Real-world treatment strategies to improve outcomes in patients with chronic idiopathic constipation and irritable bowel syndrome with constipation. Am J Gastroenterol. 2022;117(4S):S21–S26. doi: 10.14309/ajg.0000000000001709. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] Articles from Gastroenterology & Hepatology are provided here courtesy of Millenium Medical Publishing ACTIONS PDF (183.4 KB) Cite Collections Permalink PERMALINK Copy RESOURCES Similar articles Cited by other articles Links to NCBI Databases Cite Copy Download .nbib .nbib Format: AMA APA MLA NLM Add to Collections Create a new collection Add to an existing collection Name your collection * Choose a collection Unable to load your collection due to an error Please try again Add Cancel Follow NCBI NCBI on X (formerly known as Twitter) NCBI on Facebook NCBI on LinkedIn NCBI on GitHub NCBI RSS feed Connect with NLM NLM on X (formerly known as Twitter) NLM on Facebook NLM on YouTube National Library of Medicine 8600 Rockville Pike Bethesda, MD 20894 Web Policies FOIA HHS Vulnerability Disclosure Help Accessibility Careers NLM NIH HHS USA.gov Back to Top window.ncbi = window.ncbi || {}; window.ncbi.pmc = window.ncbi.pmc || {}; window.ncbi.pmc.options = { logLevel: 'INFO', staticEndpoint: 'https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/674d4f95/var/data/static/', citeCookieName: 'pmc-cf', };   jQuery.getScript("https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/core/alerts/alerts.js", function () { galert(['div.nav_and_browser', 'div.h

## around FDA
merica survey revealed that patients with IBS-C continued to experience symptoms despite an increase in the number of available therapies. 16 Among all patients with IBS-C, approximately 77% reported trying over-the-counter products before presenting to a health care provider. Constipation (77%) and abdominal pain (76%) were the primary symptoms leading patients to seek medical care, but abdominal discomfort (64%), bloating (43%), straining (39%), hard and lumpy stools (36%), and infrequent defecation (37%) were also common indications. Of all IBS-C patients surveyed, only approximately one-quarter reported being very satisfied with treatment. Notably, this survey was conducted in 2015, prior to the approval of multiple currently available therapies by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Results from the BURDEN IBS-C study published in 2018 echoed that health care providers shared their patients’ frustrations with available IBS-C treatments. 17 Approximately 79% of health care providers were not satisfied or not completely satisfied with currently available prescription options. Again, note that this survey was conducted in 2016 and early 2017, when fewer FDA-approved agents were available. The top-rated challenges reported by health care providers included inadequate response rates and treatment adherence or compliance issues. Laxatives in the Management of IBS-C The rationale for the use of laxatives to treat the symptom of constipation in IBS-C is twofold: increasing the frequency of stools while improving stool consistency. 18 Although constipation relief has been shown to lead to modest improvement in abdominal pain, patients with IBS-C often continue to experience abdominal symptoms while taking laxatives. 19 Two types of laxatives are commonly used in clinical practice in the management of IBS-C: osmotic and stimulant. Osmotic laxatives, including PEG, magnesium, and nonabsorbable sugars, promote colonic fluid and electrolyte secretion. As a result, osmotic laxatives induce softer stools and increase bowel movement frequency. However, these therapies have not been validated to improve abdominal symptoms. 20 Given a lack of evidence from randomized clinical trials that PEG derivatives can improve abdominal symptoms, the American College of Gastroenterology (ACG) guidelines recommend against its use for relieving global IBS symptoms. 1 In contrast, the American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) guidelines suggest using PEG laxatives in patients with IBS-C, noting that although PEG has been shown to improve symptoms of constipation, more s

## around randomized
BS-C The rationale for the use of laxatives to treat the symptom of constipation in IBS-C is twofold: increasing the frequency of stools while improving stool consistency. 18 Although constipation relief has been shown to lead to modest improvement in abdominal pain, patients with IBS-C often continue to experience abdominal symptoms while taking laxatives. 19 Two types of laxatives are commonly used in clinical practice in the management of IBS-C: osmotic and stimulant. Osmotic laxatives, including PEG, magnesium, and nonabsorbable sugars, promote colonic fluid and electrolyte secretion. As a result, osmotic laxatives induce softer stools and increase bowel movement frequency. However, these therapies have not been validated to improve abdominal symptoms. 20 Given a lack of evidence from randomized clinical trials that PEG derivatives can improve abdominal symptoms, the American College of Gastroenterology (ACG) guidelines recommend against its use for relieving global IBS symptoms. 1 In contrast, the American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) guidelines suggest using PEG laxatives in patients with IBS-C, noting that although PEG has been shown to improve symptoms of constipation, more studies are needed to better determine the ability of PEG to treat abdominal pain. 21 Stimulant laxatives work to increase GI motility by enhancing intestinal contractility and promoting fluid and electrolyte secretion into the colon. Stimulant laxatives include anthraquinones (such as senna, cascara, and aloe) and diphenylmethane agents (including bisacodyl and sodium picosulfate). However, although stimulant laxatives improve constipation symptoms, they are predominantly used for acute relief. Further, there is a lack of randomized clinical trials evaluating these agents in patients with IBS-C. 20 Mechanisms of Action of the Pharmacologic Agents Used in the Management of IBS-C Although over-the-counter laxatives can bring patients some relief of their bowel symptoms, they have little effect on abdominal pain, discomfort, or bloating—symptoms that significantly affect the QoL of individuals with IBSC. Often these are the symptoms ultimately prompting patients to present to clinicians for treatment. There are now several FDA-approved options available for treating IBS-C ( Figure 1 and Table 4 ). 22 - 32 The first of these to gain FDA approval was lubiprostone in 2006, and this drug was approved specifically for women. 22 This was followed by the approval of linaclotide in 2012 and plecanatide in 2017. 23 , 24 The most recently approved drug for IBS-C was tenapanor in 

## around adverse
s combined) vs 0.4% (placebo) ACG: recommended to treat global IBS-C symptoms (strong recommendation) AGA: suggests using in patients with IBS-C (conditional suggestion) Tenapanor 30 - 32 (FDA approval: 2019; US launch: 2022) Retainagogue NHE3 inhibitor T3MPO-1 FDA overall response endpoint b : 27.0% vs 18.7% with placebo; CMH P =.020 c T3MPO-2 (26-week study) FDA overall response endpoint b : 36.5% vs 23.7% with placebo; CMH P <.001 c Diarrhea (most common AE): 14.6% (tenapanor) vs 1.7% (placebo) in T3MPO-1 and 16.0% (tenapanor) vs 3.7% (placebo) in T3MPO-2 Discontinuation due to diarrhea: 1.6% in T3MPO-3 (55-week, open-label safety study) ACG: not reviewed AGA: suggests using in patients with IBS-C (conditional suggestion) Open in a new tab ACG, American College of Gastroenterology; AE, adverse event; AGA, American Gastroenterological Association; CMH, Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel; CSBM, complete spontaneous bowel movement; FDA, US Food and Drug Administration; GC-C, guanylate cyclase-C; GI, gastrointestinal; IBS-C, irritable bowel syndrome with constipation; NHE3, sodium/hydrogen exchanger isoform 3. a Overall responder status was calculated from the weekly assessments of symptom relief. Monthly responders were defined as patients who rated their IBS symptoms as being at least moderately relieved for all 4 weeks of the month or significantly relieved for at least 2 weeks of the month, with no ratings of moderately or severely worse. A patient was considered an overall responder if they were monthly responders for at least 2 of the 3 months of the study. b Defined as an improvement of at least 30% from baseline in average daily worst abdominal pain score and an increase of at least 1 CSBM from baseline, both in the same week for 6 or more out of 12 weeks. c Cochran–Mantel–Haenszel [CMH] P value. Each of these approved options has a different mechanism of action (MOA), providing potential alternatives for patients ( Figure 1 ). Because of a lack of head-to-head trials, their comparative efficacies remain unknown. Black and colleagues conducted a network meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials of these agents and found that all were superior to placebo for the treatment of global IBS-C symptoms, with similar efficacy among individual drugs and dosages for most endpoints. 34 Nelson and colleagues conducted a network meta-analysis comparing the efficacy of FDA-approved agents for IBS-C with respect to abdominal bloating and found that all were superior to placebo, also with indirect comparisons revealing no significant differences between drugs. 35 As a r

## around constipation
able 1 ). These symptoms have been present for the past 3 years and were not triggered by any specific precipitants. She reports recurrent achy abdominal pain radiating throughout her lower abdomen. This pain usually develops after lunch and is associated with progressive abdominal bloating and distention. She is frustrated that she often appears “9 months pregnant” by dinnertime. She has a daily bowel movement, but the stools are “rock hard” and associated with significant straining and a sensation of incomplete evacuation. There is mild improvement in her pain with passage of minimal amounts of stool, but the pain recurs and is sometimes worse after she consumes her next meal. Table 1. Key Points of the Patient Case Patient History A 23-year-old female with persistent abdominal pain and constipation over the past 3 years Abdominal symptoms: recurrent achy abdominal pain radiating throughout lower abdomen, usually develops after lunch and is associated with progressive abdominal bloating and distention (“appears ‘9 months pregnant’ by dinnertime”); mild improvement in pain with passage of minimal amounts of stool, but the pain recurs and is sometimes worse after she consumes her next meal Bowel-related symptoms: daily bowel movements with “rock hard” stools, significant straining, incomplete evacuation Patient report: no blood in stool, weight loss, or nocturnal symptoms Previous medical history: none Family history: no GI disorders CBC, CMP, and TSH tests: normal Previous interventions: diets (gluten-free, lactose-free, and low-FODMAP); PEG 3350 up to 3 times daily; self-guided cognitive behavioral therapy and gut-directed hypnosis Current medications: none Impact on QoL: difficulty completing experiments in her laboratory because she spends multiple hours each day in the restroom trying to evacuate; missed project deadlines; worried about losing funding Initial Clinical Presentation Moderate abdominal distention and is tympanitic No pain with abdominal palpation Digital rectal examination: normal resting tone and squeeze pressures Valsalva: appropriate perineal descent, relaxation of the anal sphincters, and efficient expulsion of the examination finger Diagnosis IBS-C Patient Goals Improved QoL Improvement in both abdominal and bowel symptoms Interested in newer therapies Open in a new tab CBC, complete blood count; CMP, comprehensive metabolic panel; FODMAP, fermentable, oligo-, di-, monosaccharides and polyols; IBS-C, irritable bowel syndrome with constipation; PEG, polyethylene glycol; QoL, quality of life; TSH, thyroid-stimulating hormone. The pa

# IBAT elobixibat https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC4481438/

## around mechanism
 Issue date 2015 Jun 28. ©The Author(s) 2015. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved. PMC Copyright notice PMCID: PMC4481438 PMID: 26139989 Abstract Chronic idiopathic constipation is a common disorder of the gastrointestinal tract that encompasses a wide profile of symptoms. Current treatment options for chronic idiopathic constipation are of limited value; therefore, a novel strategy is necessary with an increased effectiveness and safety. Recently, the inhibition of the ileal bile acid transporter has become a promising target for constipation-associated diseases. Enhanced delivery of bile acids into the colon achieves an accelerated colonic transit, increased stool frequency, and relief of constipation-related symptoms. This article provides insight into the mechanism of action of ileal bile acid transporter inhibitors and discusses their potential clinical use for pharmacotherapy of constipation in chronic idiopathic constipation. Keywords: Bile acids, Chronic idiopathic constipation, Ileal bile acid transporter Core tip: Increasing the delivery of bile acids to the colon is considered one of the most promising treatment approaches for patients with constipation. This review discusses recent advances in the field of inhibitors of bile acid transporters and future perspectives in their clinical use. INTRODUCTION Chronic idiopathic constipation (CIC) and constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-C) are common motility disorders of the lower gastrointestinal tract. CIC occurs in 2%-28% of the population worldwide[ 1 ], whereas the overall prevalence of IBS is estimated at approximately 12%-20%[ 2 , 3 ]. CIC and IBS are more commonly reported in women rather than men; however, functional constipation appears to become more frequent with age, and is primarily found in patients over 65 years, while IBS mostly affects people younger than 50 years of age. The symptoms of CIC and IBS-C are diverse; however, a wide range of gastrointestinal symptoms in CIC overlap with those reported by IBS-C patients and include bloating, infrequent bowel movements, and abdominal pain and/or discomfort[ 4 - 6 ]. Additionally, recent studies demonstrate that incomplete emptying, painful defecation, straining, and hard and lumpy stools are the chief complaints among CIC patients[ 1 , 7 ]. Of note, the major factors distinguishing between CIC and IBS-C are the severity and nature of the abdominal pain[ 5 ]. Although the symptoms of CIC and IBS-C are not life threatening, their chronic nature may cause considerable morbidity and can deteri

## around bile acid
 @media screen and (min-width: 64em) { div.pmc-wm { background: repeat-y; background-image: url("data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' width='20' height='350' xmlns:xlink='http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink'%3E%3Cdefs%3E%3Cfilter x='-.02' y='0' width='1.05' height='1' id='c'%3E%3CfeFlood flood-color='%23FFF'/%3E%3CfeComposite in='SourceGraphic'/%3E%3C/filter%3E%3Ctext id='b' font-family='Helvetica' font-size='11pt' style='opacity:1;fill:%23005ea2;stroke:none;text-anchor:middle' x='175' y='14'%3E%3C/text%3E%3Cpath id='a' style='fill:%23005ea2' d='M0 8h350v3H0z'/%3E%3C/defs%3E%3Cuse xlink:href='%23a' transform='rotate(90 10 10)'/%3E%3Cuse xlink:href='%23b' transform='rotate(90 10 10)' filter='url(%23c)'/%3E%3C/svg%3E"); padding-left: 3rem; } } Inhibition of ileal bile acid transporter: An emerging therapeutic strategy for chronic idiopathic constipation - PMC Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Search Log in Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Search… Search NCBI Primary site navigation Search Logged in as: Dashboard Publications Account settings Log in Search PMC Full-Text Archive Search in PMC Journal List User Guide PERMALINK Copy As a library, NLM provides access to scientific literature. Inclusion in an NLM database does not imply endorsement of, or agreement with, the contents by NLM or the National Institutes of Health. Learn more: PMC Disclaimer | PMC Copyright Notice World J Gastroenterol . 2015 Jun 28;21(24):7436–7442. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i24.7436 Search in PMC Search in PubMed View in NLM Catalog Add to search Inhibition of ileal bile acid transporter: An emerging therapeutic strategy for chronic idiopathic constipation Paula Mosińska Paula Mosińska 1 Paula Mosińska, Jakub Fichna, Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Medical University of Lodz, 92215 Lodz, Poland 2 Martin Storr, Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, Ludwig Maximilians University of Munich, 81377 Munich, Germany Find articles by Paula Mosińska 1, 2 , Jakub Fichna Jakub Fichna 1 Paula Mosińska, Jakub Fichna, Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Medical University of Lodz, 92215 Lodz, Poland 2 Martin Storr, Department of Medicin

## around elobixibat
roximal colonic propagating sequence frequency in healthy volunteers after administration of 1 mmol of CDCA. Moreover, administration of CDCA in patients with chronic constipation, at dosages of 750-1000 mg/day, resulted in an increase of bowel movements, decrease in stool consistency, and shortened period of fecal excretion[ 18 , 20 ]. Treatment with sodium chenodeoxycholate at a low dosage of 0.5-1.0 g/d also ameliorated colonic transit, and enabled frequent defecation in healthy volunteers and patients with ailments related to constipation[ 18 , 20 ]. Finally, it has been suggested that high luminal accumulation of selected BAs may produce a laxative effect, generally by the stimulation of its prosecretory and promotility actions[ 8 , 11 , 33 , 38 ]. CURRENTLY AVAILABLE IBAT INHIBITORS Elobixibat (former name: A3309) is a novel and promising approach in the treatment of constipation. Elobixibat inhibits ileal BA reuptake via the inhibition of IBAT; during this process, the hepatic synthesis of BA is upregulated on account of the maintenance of EHC homeostasis. Interestingly, the abundant synthesis of cholesterol derivatives leads to the depletion of cholesterol stores in the liver, which simultaneously stimulates the expression of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptors on hepatocytes and reduces the level of serum LDL[ 37 ]. A recent phase I randomized trial showed acceleration of colonic transit, reductions of total plasma cholesterol and LDL by 11% and 16%, respectively, and an increase in the plasma C4 levels in CIC patients after 14 d of treatment with 10 mg of elobixibat. Moreover, a double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-center clinical trial conducted by Simrén et al[ 39 ] reported that there were no side effects after its administration. It was suggested that a higher dose of elobixibat may be incorporated into the treatment; however, an overdose of elobixibat may lead to excessive colonic motility, resulting in diarrhea. Similar favorable therapeutic effects of elobixibat, administered orally for 14 d, were shown by Wong et al[ 37 ] in a phase IIa, single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Overall colonic transit in CIC patients was significantly accelerated at 24 h and 48 h in comparison with the placebo group. Both doses tested, 15 mg and 20 mg, were well tolerated and produced alteration in stool consistency, ease of passage and straining, and an increase in the frequency of spontaneous bowel movements, but no increase in stool frequency. No significant ameliorations were detected regarding abdominal bloating an

## around ileal bile acid transporter
 @media screen and (min-width: 64em) { div.pmc-wm { background: repeat-y; background-image: url("data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' width='20' height='350' xmlns:xlink='http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink'%3E%3Cdefs%3E%3Cfilter x='-.02' y='0' width='1.05' height='1' id='c'%3E%3CfeFlood flood-color='%23FFF'/%3E%3CfeComposite in='SourceGraphic'/%3E%3C/filter%3E%3Ctext id='b' font-family='Helvetica' font-size='11pt' style='opacity:1;fill:%23005ea2;stroke:none;text-anchor:middle' x='175' y='14'%3E%3C/text%3E%3Cpath id='a' style='fill:%23005ea2' d='M0 8h350v3H0z'/%3E%3C/defs%3E%3Cuse xlink:href='%23a' transform='rotate(90 10 10)'/%3E%3Cuse xlink:href='%23b' transform='rotate(90 10 10)' filter='url(%23c)'/%3E%3C/svg%3E"); padding-left: 3rem; } } Inhibition of ileal bile acid transporter: An emerging therapeutic strategy for chronic idiopathic constipation - PMC Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Search Log in Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Search… Search NCBI Primary site navigation Search Logged in as: Dashboard Publications Account settings Log in Search PMC Full-Text Archive Search in PMC Journal List User Guide PERMALINK Copy As a library, NLM provides access to scientific literature. Inclusion in an NLM database does not imply endorsement of, or agreement with, the contents by NLM or the National Institutes of Health. Learn more: PMC Disclaimer | PMC Copyright Notice World J Gastroenterol . 2015 Jun 28;21(24):7436–7442. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i24.7436 Search in PMC Search in PubMed View in NLM Catalog Add to search Inhibition of ileal bile acid transporter: An emerging therapeutic strategy for chronic idiopathic constipation Paula Mosińska Paula Mosińska 1 Paula Mosińska, Jakub Fichna, Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Medical University of Lodz, 92215 Lodz, Poland 2 Martin Storr, Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, Ludwig Maximilians University of Munich, 81377 Munich, Germany Find articles by Paula Mosińska 1, 2 , Jakub Fichna Jakub Fichna 1 Paula Mosińska, Jakub Fichna, Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Medical University of Lodz, 92215 Lodz, Poland 2 Martin Storr, Department of M

## around FDA
talsis in the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract are observed[ 2 , 26 , 29 - 31 ]. Unfortunately, these treatment options are often of limited efficacy, and according to Johanson et al[ 32 ], approximately 50% of patients are not satisfied with their constipation therapies. Thus, a novel therapeutic strategy is urgently needed. Increasing the delivery of BAs to the colon is considered one of the most promising treatment approaches for patients with constipation[ 33 ]. Table 1. Most common types of drugs used for the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation and constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome Drug class Generic name Phase of clinical trial/approval status Proposed mechanism of action Therapeutic effect Most frequent adverse effect Ref. Secretagogue Linaclotide III/FDA approval (2012) GC-C agonist Antinociceptive and antihyperalgesic. Increases intestinal fluid, accelerates GI transit, reduces abdominal pain Mild or moderate diarrhea [4,8-11] Lubiprostone III-IV/FDA approval (2008) CIC-2 activator Promotes intestinal fluid secretion, increases SBM frequency, reduces abdominal bloating and discomfort Nausea, diarrhea, abdominal distention, headache [8,12-14] Plecanatide II, III for CIC and I for IBS-C GC-C agonist Facilitates bowl movements, stimulates water secretion, improves stool consistency and frequency Diarrhea (mild or moderate), nausea, abdominal discomfort, abdominal pain, vomiting (at the highest doses) [12,15,16] Prokinetic Tegaserod Withdrawn by the FDA in 2007 due to risk of adverse cardiovascular effects Selective partial 5-HT 4 agonist Stimulates motility in the upper and lower GI tract, reduces visceral sensitivity and pain, improves stool consistency Diarrhea, cardiovascular effects (angina, myocardial infarction, and cerebrovascular events) [12,17-19] Administered twice daily increases gastric emptying rate Smooth muscle relaxant, reduces colonic pseudo-obstruction and constipation Renzapride II and III for IBS-C; remains under evaluation Full 5-HT 4 agonist and 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist Prokinetic and stimulatory effect on GI transit, improves stool consistency Diarrhea, abdominal pain, constipation, nausea [8,20-22] Prucalopride III, undergoing clinical trials 5-HT 4 agonist Improves the frequency of SBM, reduces abdominal discomfort Headache, nausea, abdominal pain, diarrhea [12,14,20] Velusetrag, naronapride Completed Phase II 5-HT 4 receptor agonist Accelerates colonic and orocecal transit, increases SBM, normalizes stool consistency Diarrhea, headache, nausea [23-25] Laxatives Lactulose, sorbitol, polyethy

## around randomized
, it has been suggested that high luminal accumulation of selected BAs may produce a laxative effect, generally by the stimulation of its prosecretory and promotility actions[ 8 , 11 , 33 , 38 ]. CURRENTLY AVAILABLE IBAT INHIBITORS Elobixibat (former name: A3309) is a novel and promising approach in the treatment of constipation. Elobixibat inhibits ileal BA reuptake via the inhibition of IBAT; during this process, the hepatic synthesis of BA is upregulated on account of the maintenance of EHC homeostasis. Interestingly, the abundant synthesis of cholesterol derivatives leads to the depletion of cholesterol stores in the liver, which simultaneously stimulates the expression of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptors on hepatocytes and reduces the level of serum LDL[ 37 ]. A recent phase I randomized trial showed acceleration of colonic transit, reductions of total plasma cholesterol and LDL by 11% and 16%, respectively, and an increase in the plasma C4 levels in CIC patients after 14 d of treatment with 10 mg of elobixibat. Moreover, a double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-center clinical trial conducted by Simrén et al[ 39 ] reported that there were no side effects after its administration. It was suggested that a higher dose of elobixibat may be incorporated into the treatment; however, an overdose of elobixibat may lead to excessive colonic motility, resulting in diarrhea. Similar favorable therapeutic effects of elobixibat, administered orally for 14 d, were shown by Wong et al[ 37 ] in a phase IIa, single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Overall colonic transit in CIC patients was significantly accelerated at 24 h and 48 h in comparison with the placebo group. Both doses tested, 15 mg and 20 mg, were well tolerated and produced alteration in stool consistency, ease of passage and straining, and an increase in the frequency of spontaneous bowel movements, but no increase in stool frequency. No significant ameliorations were detected regarding abdominal bloating and discomfort. After the treatment with elobixibat, only 4/11 patients in the 15 mg group, and 6/12 patients in the 20 mg group experienced mild to moderate abdominal cramps and pain. A recent placebo-controlled, phase IIb clinical trial in 190 CIC patients evaluated the efficacy and safety of elobixibat at three doses[ 38 ]. The IBAT inhibitor significantly increased bowel movements at 10 mg and 15 mg, but not 5 mg, and led to an alleviation of constipation-associated symptoms, such as straining, bloating, and increased stool consistency. The majority of patient

## around adverse
uced visceral sensitivity/pain and improved peristalsis in the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract are observed[ 2 , 26 , 29 - 31 ]. Unfortunately, these treatment options are often of limited efficacy, and according to Johanson et al[ 32 ], approximately 50% of patients are not satisfied with their constipation therapies. Thus, a novel therapeutic strategy is urgently needed. Increasing the delivery of BAs to the colon is considered one of the most promising treatment approaches for patients with constipation[ 33 ]. Table 1. Most common types of drugs used for the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation and constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome Drug class Generic name Phase of clinical trial/approval status Proposed mechanism of action Therapeutic effect Most frequent adverse effect Ref. Secretagogue Linaclotide III/FDA approval (2012) GC-C agonist Antinociceptive and antihyperalgesic. Increases intestinal fluid, accelerates GI transit, reduces abdominal pain Mild or moderate diarrhea [4,8-11] Lubiprostone III-IV/FDA approval (2008) CIC-2 activator Promotes intestinal fluid secretion, increases SBM frequency, reduces abdominal bloating and discomfort Nausea, diarrhea, abdominal distention, headache [8,12-14] Plecanatide II, III for CIC and I for IBS-C GC-C agonist Facilitates bowl movements, stimulates water secretion, improves stool consistency and frequency Diarrhea (mild or moderate), nausea, abdominal discomfort, abdominal pain, vomiting (at the highest doses) [12,15,16] Prokinetic Tegaserod Withdrawn by the FDA in 2007 due to risk of adverse cardiovascular effects Selective partial 5-HT 4 agonist Stimulates motility in the upper and lower GI tract, reduces visceral sensitivity and pain, improves stool consistency Diarrhea, cardiovascular effects (angina, myocardial infarction, and cerebrovascular events) [12,17-19] Administered twice daily increases gastric emptying rate Smooth muscle relaxant, reduces colonic pseudo-obstruction and constipation Renzapride II and III for IBS-C; remains under evaluation Full 5-HT 4 agonist and 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist Prokinetic and stimulatory effect on GI transit, improves stool consistency Diarrhea, abdominal pain, constipation, nausea [8,20-22] Prucalopride III, undergoing clinical trials 5-HT 4 agonist Improves the frequency of SBM, reduces abdominal discomfort Headache, nausea, abdominal pain, diarrhea [12,14,20] Velusetrag, naronapride Completed Phase II 5-HT 4 receptor agonist Accelerates colonic and orocecal transit, increases SBM, normalizes stool consistency Diarrhea, headache, nause

## around constipation
at-y; background-image: url("data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' width='20' height='350' xmlns:xlink='http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink'%3E%3Cdefs%3E%3Cfilter x='-.02' y='0' width='1.05' height='1' id='c'%3E%3CfeFlood flood-color='%23FFF'/%3E%3CfeComposite in='SourceGraphic'/%3E%3C/filter%3E%3Ctext id='b' font-family='Helvetica' font-size='11pt' style='opacity:1;fill:%23005ea2;stroke:none;text-anchor:middle' x='175' y='14'%3E%3C/text%3E%3Cpath id='a' style='fill:%23005ea2' d='M0 8h350v3H0z'/%3E%3C/defs%3E%3Cuse xlink:href='%23a' transform='rotate(90 10 10)'/%3E%3Cuse xlink:href='%23b' transform='rotate(90 10 10)' filter='url(%23c)'/%3E%3C/svg%3E"); padding-left: 3rem; } } Inhibition of ileal bile acid transporter: An emerging therapeutic strategy for chronic idiopathic constipation - PMC Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Search Log in Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Search… Search NCBI Primary site navigation Search Logged in as: Dashboard Publications Account settings Log in Search PMC Full-Text Archive Search in PMC Journal List User Guide PERMALINK Copy As a library, NLM provides access to scientific literature. Inclusion in an NLM database does not imply endorsement of, or agreement with, the contents by NLM or the National Institutes of Health. Learn more: PMC Disclaimer | PMC Copyright Notice World J Gastroenterol . 2015 Jun 28;21(24):7436–7442. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i24.7436 Search in PMC Search in PubMed View in NLM Catalog Add to search Inhibition of ileal bile acid transporter: An emerging therapeutic strategy for chronic idiopathic constipation Paula Mosińska Paula Mosińska 1 Paula Mosińska, Jakub Fichna, Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Medical University of Lodz, 92215 Lodz, Poland 2 Martin Storr, Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, Ludwig Maximilians University of Munich, 81377 Munich, Germany Find articles by Paula Mosińska 1, 2 , Jakub Fichna Jakub Fichna 1 Paula Mosińska, Jakub Fichna, Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Medical University of Lodz, 92215 Lodz, Poland 2 Martin Storr, Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, Ludwig Maximilians University of Munich, 81377

# Vibrating capsule review https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10600682/

## around mechanism
hes for treating chronic constipation. Several non-pharmacological treatments and novel pharmacological approaches are being explored, such as YKP10811 (5-hydroxytryptamine-4 receptor agonist), relamorelin (ghrelin receptor agonist), and plecanatide (guanylate cyclase C receptor agonist) [ 10 - 13 ]. Additionally, other techniques have been investigated, such as the dispersion of stool facilitating bowel movements by direct mechanical stimulation of the intestine, physical stimulation of the abdomen by abdominal massage [ 14 ], whole-body vibration by an external vibrating belt [ 15 , 16 ], micro-physiotherapy [ 17 ], interferential electrical stimulation [ 18 ], and acupuncture [ 19 ]. These approaches have demonstrated varying results for the treatment of chronic constipation. The exact mechanism through which physical stimulation helps relieve constipation has not been clearly elucidated. Increased gastrointestinal motility and relaxation of sphincters by parasympathetic and local reflexes might play a role [ 16 ]. Vibration may augment the effect by converting external mechanical stimulation into gastrointestinal wall stimulation [ 20 ]. In August 2022, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued marketing authorization for an orally administered vibrating capsule (VC) for treating chronic idiopathic constipation in patients who have not experienced relief with available laxative therapies for at least a month [ 21 ]. The VC system is made up of a single-use capsule and a control pod controlling that activates the capsule using an electromagnetic signal. The vibrating sequence initiates after a programmed delay of 6–8 hours to allow the capsule to enter the colon. The vibration mode can be adjusted and modulated using an external configurator operated through a smartphone application ( Figure 1 ). Previous studies have shown that the VC system has the potential to significantly increase the frequency of bowel movements [ 22 - 24 ]. We aimed to review the existing literature and synthesize pre-clinical and clinical evidence regarding the efficacy and safety of VC in the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation. Figure 1. Open in a new tab A fragmented isometric view of the vibrating capsule. The shell (1) contains two attached segments that can move independently. One end of a ferromagnetic shaft (2) is connected by a biasing spring (3) to the inner surface of segment 4. The other end of the shaft is free to move axially through the lumen of the solenoid (5), which is connected to the inner surface of segment 6 by a bracket (7). By

## around vibrating capsule
dicine, Jazan University, Jazan, Saudi Arabia. E-mail: rravi@jazanu.edu.sa # These authors have contributed equally. Received 2023 Mar 15; Accepted 2023 May 5. ©2023 JOURNAL of MEDICINE and LIFE This article is distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/ ), which permits unrestricted use and redistribution provided that the original author and source are credited. PMC Copyright notice PMCID: PMC10600682 PMID: 37900062 Abstract In August 2022, the United States Food and Drug Administration issued marketing authorization for an orally administered vibrating colon-stimulating capsule for treating chronic idiopathic constipation. We aimed to review the literature systematically and synthesize evidence on the role of the vibrating capsule in chronic idiopathic constipation. A comprehensive search was conducted on PubMed, Embase, International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (World Health Organization), Cochrane Library databases, and two pre-print servers (medRxiv.org and Research Square) until 31 December 2022, to identify published pre-clinical and clinical original studies evaluating the role of the vibrating capsule in patients with chronic constipation. The studies were critically analyzed, and data were extracted. We identified thirty-three articles and five studies (one pre-clinical, one combined, and three clinical). The pre-clinical studies in dogs revealed no adverse effects of the vibrating capsule. In the clinical studies, there were significant findings observed. The number of spontaneous bowel movements per week and the proportion of patients experiencing an increase of at least one complete spontaneous bowel movement per week were both significantly higher in the group receiving the vibrating capsule compared to the group receiving the sham capsule. No treatment-related serious adverse event was noted. The mild adverse events were vibration sensation, diarrhea, and abdominal discomfort. The efficacy and safety profiles of the vibrating colon-stimulating capsule in treating patients with chronic constipation are promising. However, more robust evidence is required by conducting large randomized clinical trials before conclusively determining its wider use. Keywords: bowel movement, chronic idiopathic constipation, colon, stimulating, vibrating capsule (VC) INTRODUCTION Constipation is defined as the less-frequent passage of stool or the passage of hard stool, characterized by abdominal discomfort and painful defecation [ 1 , 2 ]. It is often a chronic disorder, especiall

## around FDA
ect mechanical stimulation of the intestine, physical stimulation of the abdomen by abdominal massage [ 14 ], whole-body vibration by an external vibrating belt [ 15 , 16 ], micro-physiotherapy [ 17 ], interferential electrical stimulation [ 18 ], and acupuncture [ 19 ]. These approaches have demonstrated varying results for the treatment of chronic constipation. The exact mechanism through which physical stimulation helps relieve constipation has not been clearly elucidated. Increased gastrointestinal motility and relaxation of sphincters by parasympathetic and local reflexes might play a role [ 16 ]. Vibration may augment the effect by converting external mechanical stimulation into gastrointestinal wall stimulation [ 20 ]. In August 2022, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued marketing authorization for an orally administered vibrating capsule (VC) for treating chronic idiopathic constipation in patients who have not experienced relief with available laxative therapies for at least a month [ 21 ]. The VC system is made up of a single-use capsule and a control pod controlling that activates the capsule using an electromagnetic signal. The vibrating sequence initiates after a programmed delay of 6–8 hours to allow the capsule to enter the colon. The vibration mode can be adjusted and modulated using an external configurator operated through a smartphone application ( Figure 1 ). Previous studies have shown that the VC system has the potential to significantly increase the frequency of bowel movements [ 22 - 24 ]. We aimed to review the existing literature and synthesize pre-clinical and clinical evidence regarding the efficacy and safety of VC in the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation. Figure 1. Open in a new tab A fragmented isometric view of the vibrating capsule. The shell (1) contains two attached segments that can move independently. One end of a ferromagnetic shaft (2) is connected by a biasing spring (3) to the inner surface of segment 4. The other end of the shaft is free to move axially through the lumen of the solenoid (5), which is connected to the inner surface of segment 6 by a bracket (7). By conducting an electric current through the solenoid, the ferromagnetic shaft and the solenoid are pulled toward each other. When the electric current is stopped, the biasing and connecting springs assume their initial unstressed lengths, while segments 4 and 7 are forced to move in opposite directions toward their initial disposition (8). The figure was reproduced with permission from Ron Y, Halpern Z, Safadi R, Dickman

## around randomized
 clinical). The pre-clinical studies in dogs revealed no adverse effects of the vibrating capsule. In the clinical studies, there were significant findings observed. The number of spontaneous bowel movements per week and the proportion of patients experiencing an increase of at least one complete spontaneous bowel movement per week were both significantly higher in the group receiving the vibrating capsule compared to the group receiving the sham capsule. No treatment-related serious adverse event was noted. The mild adverse events were vibration sensation, diarrhea, and abdominal discomfort. The efficacy and safety profiles of the vibrating colon-stimulating capsule in treating patients with chronic constipation are promising. However, more robust evidence is required by conducting large randomized clinical trials before conclusively determining its wider use. Keywords: bowel movement, chronic idiopathic constipation, colon, stimulating, vibrating capsule (VC) INTRODUCTION Constipation is defined as the less-frequent passage of stool or the passage of hard stool, characterized by abdominal discomfort and painful defecation [ 1 , 2 ]. It is often a chronic disorder, especially in the elderly population. Globally, the prevalence of chronic constipation is estimated to be around 14% [ 3 ], but it can be higher, reaching up to 22% in elderly individuals and up to 30% in some specific subgroups, such as women, non-whites and those belonging to a lower socioeconomic status [ 4 ]. Chronic constipation is classified into idiopathic (normal-transit and slow-transit) and secondary constipation [ 5 ]. Chronic constipation adversely impacts direct healthcare expenditures and has a huge negative effect on the working productivity and quality of life of patients [ 6 , 7 ]. Several therapeutic approaches are available for the treatment of chronic constipation. The World Gastroenterology Organization advocates a staggered approach starting with lifestyle and dietary modifications and escalating to pharmacotherapy (laxatives, prokinetic agents, and enemas). Likewise, the American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons recommends plenty of fiber intake, fluid supplementation, and osmotic laxatives as the initial management, followed by stimulant laxatives as the second line of treatment for chronic constipation. Refractory colonic slow-transit constipation may require surgical interventions [ 1 , 5 , 8 , 9 ]. While several therapeutic options are available, the persisting high prevalence rate, treatment-related adverse effects, high recurrence rate, and low patient satisfa

## around adverse
or treating chronic idiopathic constipation. We aimed to review the literature systematically and synthesize evidence on the role of the vibrating capsule in chronic idiopathic constipation. A comprehensive search was conducted on PubMed, Embase, International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (World Health Organization), Cochrane Library databases, and two pre-print servers (medRxiv.org and Research Square) until 31 December 2022, to identify published pre-clinical and clinical original studies evaluating the role of the vibrating capsule in patients with chronic constipation. The studies were critically analyzed, and data were extracted. We identified thirty-three articles and five studies (one pre-clinical, one combined, and three clinical). The pre-clinical studies in dogs revealed no adverse effects of the vibrating capsule. In the clinical studies, there were significant findings observed. The number of spontaneous bowel movements per week and the proportion of patients experiencing an increase of at least one complete spontaneous bowel movement per week were both significantly higher in the group receiving the vibrating capsule compared to the group receiving the sham capsule. No treatment-related serious adverse event was noted. The mild adverse events were vibration sensation, diarrhea, and abdominal discomfort. The efficacy and safety profiles of the vibrating colon-stimulating capsule in treating patients with chronic constipation are promising. However, more robust evidence is required by conducting large randomized clinical trials before conclusively determining its wider use. Keywords: bowel movement, chronic idiopathic constipation, colon, stimulating, vibrating capsule (VC) INTRODUCTION Constipation is defined as the less-frequent passage of stool or the passage of hard stool, characterized by abdominal discomfort and painful defecation [ 1 , 2 ]. It is often a chronic disorder, especially in the elderly population. Globally, the prevalence of chronic constipation is estimated to be around 14% [ 3 ], but it can be higher, reaching up to 22% in elderly individuals and up to 30% in some specific subgroups, such as women, non-whites and those belonging to a lower socioeconomic status [ 4 ]. Chronic constipation is classified into idiopathic (normal-transit and slow-transit) and secondary constipation [ 5 ]. Chronic constipation adversely impacts direct healthcare expenditures and has a huge negative effect on the working productivity and quality of life of patients [ 6 , 7 ]. Several therapeutic approaches are available for the treatment of 

## around constipation
n-width: 64em) { div.pmc-wm { background: repeat-y; background-image: url("data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg' width='20' height='350' xmlns:xlink='http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink'%3E%3Cdefs%3E%3Cfilter x='-.02' y='0' width='1.05' height='1' id='c'%3E%3CfeFlood flood-color='%23FFF'/%3E%3CfeComposite in='SourceGraphic'/%3E%3C/filter%3E%3Ctext id='b' font-family='Helvetica' font-size='11pt' style='opacity:1;fill:%23005ea2;stroke:none;text-anchor:middle' x='175' y='14'%3E%3C/text%3E%3Cpath id='a' style='fill:%23005ea2' d='M0 8h350v3H0z'/%3E%3C/defs%3E%3Cuse xlink:href='%23a' transform='rotate(90 10 10)'/%3E%3Cuse xlink:href='%23b' transform='rotate(90 10 10)' filter='url(%23c)'/%3E%3C/svg%3E"); padding-left: 3rem; } } Vibrating colon-stimulating capsule to treat chronic constipation: A systematic review - PMC Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Search Log in Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Search… Search NCBI Primary site navigation Search Logged in as: Dashboard Publications Account settings Log in Search PMC Full-Text Archive Search in PMC Journal List User Guide PERMALINK Copy As a library, NLM provides access to scientific literature. Inclusion in an NLM database does not imply endorsement of, or agreement with, the contents by NLM or the National Institutes of Health. Learn more: PMC Disclaimer | PMC Copyright Notice J Med Life . 2023 Jul;16(7):1050–1056. doi: 10.25122/jml-2023-1025 Search in PMC Search in PubMed View in NLM Catalog Add to search Vibrating colon-stimulating capsule to treat chronic constipation: A systematic review Prakash Bruhan Math Prakash Bruhan Math 1 Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Jazan University, Jazan, Saudi Arabia Find articles by Prakash Bruhan Math 1, # , Renju Ravi Renju Ravi 1 Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Jazan University, Jazan, Saudi Arabia Find articles by Renju Ravi 1, #, * , Tahir Hakami Tahir Hakami 1 Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Jazan University, Jazan, Saudi Arabia Find articles by Tahir Hakami 1 , Saibal Das Saibal Das 2 Indian Council of Medical Research, Centre for Ageing and Mental Health, Kolkata, India 3 Departmen
