
# AGA_ACG_CIC_2023
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10542656/

# BDA_diet_constipation_2025
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC12623288/

# OIC_AGA_technical_review
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6685294/

## around recommend
f OIC. The technical review panel included gastroenterologists with clinical and research expertise, a methodologist with experience in evidence appraisal and guideline development, and 2 trainee methodologists. Financial and non-financial conflicts of interest of all participants were managed according to AGA policies and no member of this technical review panel had any conflicts of interest. The panel held periodic telephone conferences and one face-to-face meeting to conduct this work. Methods for deriving focused clinical questions, systematically reviewing and rating the quality of evidence for each outcome, and rating the overall quality of evidence were based on the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation) framework, which has been described in more detail previously. 17 Methods Rapid Review Process In light of the recent development of several new agents for the management of OIC, the AGA clinical guideline committee proposed this topic as a rapid review with the goal of reducing the time from topic proposal to guideline publication and expediting the process. While the panel generally followed the steps outlined by the AGA clinical guideline committee, the following “shortcuts” were taken: (1) initial review of titles and abstracts was done by 1 of 3 authors (BH, SS, SS) and only the excluded titles and abstracts were reviewed by a second author. This reduced the title and abstract review process time, but did not reduce the sensitivity for full-text review; (2) data extraction for each study was performed by only 1 of 3 authors (BH, SS, SS); and (3) risk of bias assessment was initially determined by a single author (BH or SS) and when concerns arose, a second author was consulted (SS). Formulation of Clinical Questions and Determining Outcomes of Interest Using the PICO format, which frames a clinical question by defining a 

## around strong
 Dis 2016;7:121–134. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 3. Hjalte F, Ragnarson Tennvall G, Welin KO, et al. Treatment of severe pain and opioid-induced constipation: an observational study of quality of life, resource use, and costs in Sweden. Pain Ther 2016;5:227–236. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 4. Nelson AD, Camilleri M. Chronic opioid induced constipation in patients with nonmalignant pain: challenges and opportunities. Therap Adv Gastroenterol 2015; 8:206–220. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 5. Abramowitz L, Beziaud N, Labreze L, et al. Prevalence and impact of constipation and bowel dysfunction induced by strong opioids: a cross-sectional survey of 520 patients with cancer pain: DYONISOS study. J Med Econ 2013;16:1423–1433. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 6. Cowan DT, Wilson-Barnett J, Griffiths P, et al. A survey of chronic noncancer pain patients prescribed opioid analgesics. Pain Med 2003;4:340–351. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 7. Ducrotte P, Milce J, Soufflet C, et al. Prevalence and clinical features of opioid-induced constipation in the general population: A French study of 15,000 individuals. United European Gastroenterol J 2017;5:588–600. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 8. Olufade T, Kong AM, Princic N, et al. Comparing healthcare utilization and costs among Medicaid-insured patients with chronic noncancer pain with and without opioid-induced constipation: a retrospective analysis. Am Health Drug Benefits 2017;10:79–86. [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 9. Candrilli SD, Davis KL, Iyer S. Impact of constipation on opioid use patterns, health care resource utilization, and costs in cancer patients on opioid therapy. J Pain Palliat Care Pharmacother 2009;23:231–241. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 10. Fernandes AW

## around polyethylene
o available in the Supplementary Materials . Question: Should Laxatives Be Used in the Management of Opioid-Induced Constipation in Patients With Non-Cancer Pain? Osmotic and stimulant laxatives promote evacuation of the colon through stimulation of fluid and electrolyte transport and/or increase propulsive motility. Key message. There is limited direct evidence on the efficacy of laxatives in OIC. However, there is indirect evidence of the benefit for laxatives in patients with chronic idiopathic constipation (a condition that presents similarly to OIC with respect to clinical symptoms) and there is a large body of evidence on the efficacy of laxatives, especially osmotic laxatives such as polyethylene glycol (PEG)-3350, in promoting a dose-dependent effect on laxation, supporting its use as a bowel cleansing agent for colonoscopy. Furthermore, laxatives were routinely used as rescue therapy in the majority of clinical trials for OIC in patients that failed to respond to the active medication. The indirect evidence and the use of laxatives in OIC trials helped to increase our certainty in the effectiveness of laxatives for the management of OIC ( moderate-quality evidence ). Effect estimates. Based on abstract and full-text review, only 1 double-blind RCT, with 57 patients who participated in a methadone outpatient program, was identified. 26 The majority of articles evaluating the use of laxatives included patients with constipation not specifically attributed to OIC. In this study by Freedman et al, 26 patients were randomized to placebo, lactulose, or PEG-3350 and were followed over a 7-week period, however, no specific definition of OIC was provided, no specific dose of methadone was defined, and no specific BM frequency for constipation was used. The primary end point was weekly stool consistency defined by patients’ self-reported diaries. The investigators foun

## around naldemedine
comes of Interest Using the PICO format, which frames a clinical question by defining a specific patient population (P), intervention (I), comparator (C), and outcomes (O), the panel prioritized the questions to be addressed by this guideline (see Table 1 ). The final set of questions and statements was approved by the AGA Governing Board. Table 1. PICO Questions Population(s) Intervention(s) Comparator Outcome(s) a priori Studies Adults with OIC (ambulatory, adult outpatients on chronic opioids with constipation defined by clinical symptoms [<3 SBMs], physician diagnosis, or other study-specific diagnostic criteria) Osmotic or stimulant laxatives Osmotic: PEG PAMORAs: naloxegol, alvimopan, naldemedine, methylnaltrexone Secretagogues: lubiprostone Selective 5HT4 agonist: prucalopride Placebo or usual care or active Comparator SPMs, number per week Lack of straining during defecation BM within prespecified time frame, time to laxation RFBMs Reduction/cessation of laxatives Reduction in painful defecation Stool frequency Stool consistency (BSFS) PAC-QOL PROM AEs leading to treatment discontinuation (ie, allergic reactions, death, cardiac events, abdominal pain, diarrhea, incontinence, nocturnal BMs) Reversal of analgesia or exacerbation of chronic pain Cost-effectiveness RCT Observational studies (for the harm outcome) Systematic review/meta-analysis Open in a new tab Members of the technical review and guideline committee selected patient-important outcomes for each question a priori. The panel rated the relative importance of each outcome for decision making on a scale of 1–10. Outcomes receiving a score of 7–10 were considered critical (for decision making), 4–6 as important (for decision making), and 1–3 less important (for decision making). This initial list of outcomes was then further refined during the evidence review by the technical review panel. Ultimately, t

## around naloxegol
ns and Determining Outcomes of Interest Using the PICO format, which frames a clinical question by defining a specific patient population (P), intervention (I), comparator (C), and outcomes (O), the panel prioritized the questions to be addressed by this guideline (see Table 1 ). The final set of questions and statements was approved by the AGA Governing Board. Table 1. PICO Questions Population(s) Intervention(s) Comparator Outcome(s) a priori Studies Adults with OIC (ambulatory, adult outpatients on chronic opioids with constipation defined by clinical symptoms [<3 SBMs], physician diagnosis, or other study-specific diagnostic criteria) Osmotic or stimulant laxatives Osmotic: PEG PAMORAs: naloxegol, alvimopan, naldemedine, methylnaltrexone Secretagogues: lubiprostone Selective 5HT4 agonist: prucalopride Placebo or usual care or active Comparator SPMs, number per week Lack of straining during defecation BM within prespecified time frame, time to laxation RFBMs Reduction/cessation of laxatives Reduction in painful defecation Stool frequency Stool consistency (BSFS) PAC-QOL PROM AEs leading to treatment discontinuation (ie, allergic reactions, death, cardiac events, abdominal pain, diarrhea, incontinence, nocturnal BMs) Reversal of analgesia or exacerbation of chronic pain Cost-effectiveness RCT Observational studies (for the harm outcome) Systematic review/meta-analysis Open in a new tab Members of the technical review and guideline committee selected patient-important outcomes for each question a priori. The panel rated the relative importance of each outcome for decision making on a scale of 1–10. Outcomes receiving a score of 7–10 were considered critical (for decision making), 4–6 as important (for decision making), and 1–3 less important (for decision making). This initial list of outcomes was then further refined during the evidence review by the technical revie

## around methylnaltrexone
rest Using the PICO format, which frames a clinical question by defining a specific patient population (P), intervention (I), comparator (C), and outcomes (O), the panel prioritized the questions to be addressed by this guideline (see Table 1 ). The final set of questions and statements was approved by the AGA Governing Board. Table 1. PICO Questions Population(s) Intervention(s) Comparator Outcome(s) a priori Studies Adults with OIC (ambulatory, adult outpatients on chronic opioids with constipation defined by clinical symptoms [<3 SBMs], physician diagnosis, or other study-specific diagnostic criteria) Osmotic or stimulant laxatives Osmotic: PEG PAMORAs: naloxegol, alvimopan, naldemedine, methylnaltrexone Secretagogues: lubiprostone Selective 5HT4 agonist: prucalopride Placebo or usual care or active Comparator SPMs, number per week Lack of straining during defecation BM within prespecified time frame, time to laxation RFBMs Reduction/cessation of laxatives Reduction in painful defecation Stool frequency Stool consistency (BSFS) PAC-QOL PROM AEs leading to treatment discontinuation (ie, allergic reactions, death, cardiac events, abdominal pain, diarrhea, incontinence, nocturnal BMs) Reversal of analgesia or exacerbation of chronic pain Cost-effectiveness RCT Observational studies (for the harm outcome) Systematic review/meta-analysis Open in a new tab Members of the technical review and guideline committee selected patient-important outcomes for each question a priori. The panel rated the relative importance of each outcome for decision making on a scale of 1–10. Outcomes receiving a score of 7–10 were considered critical (for decision making), 4–6 as important (for decision making), and 1–3 less important (for decision making). This initial list of outcomes was then further refined during the evidence review by the technical review panel. Ultimately, the following 

## around lubiprostone
h frames a clinical question by defining a specific patient population (P), intervention (I), comparator (C), and outcomes (O), the panel prioritized the questions to be addressed by this guideline (see Table 1 ). The final set of questions and statements was approved by the AGA Governing Board. Table 1. PICO Questions Population(s) Intervention(s) Comparator Outcome(s) a priori Studies Adults with OIC (ambulatory, adult outpatients on chronic opioids with constipation defined by clinical symptoms [<3 SBMs], physician diagnosis, or other study-specific diagnostic criteria) Osmotic or stimulant laxatives Osmotic: PEG PAMORAs: naloxegol, alvimopan, naldemedine, methylnaltrexone Secretagogues: lubiprostone Selective 5HT4 agonist: prucalopride Placebo or usual care or active Comparator SPMs, number per week Lack of straining during defecation BM within prespecified time frame, time to laxation RFBMs Reduction/cessation of laxatives Reduction in painful defecation Stool frequency Stool consistency (BSFS) PAC-QOL PROM AEs leading to treatment discontinuation (ie, allergic reactions, death, cardiac events, abdominal pain, diarrhea, incontinence, nocturnal BMs) Reversal of analgesia or exacerbation of chronic pain Cost-effectiveness RCT Observational studies (for the harm outcome) Systematic review/meta-analysis Open in a new tab Members of the technical review and guideline committee selected patient-important outcomes for each question a priori. The panel rated the relative importance of each outcome for decision making on a scale of 1–10. Outcomes receiving a score of 7–10 were considered critical (for decision making), 4–6 as important (for decision making), and 1–3 less important (for decision making). This initial list of outcomes was then further refined during the evidence review by the technical review panel. Ultimately, the following outcomes were considered critica

## around prucalopride
ing a specific patient population (P), intervention (I), comparator (C), and outcomes (O), the panel prioritized the questions to be addressed by this guideline (see Table 1 ). The final set of questions and statements was approved by the AGA Governing Board. Table 1. PICO Questions Population(s) Intervention(s) Comparator Outcome(s) a priori Studies Adults with OIC (ambulatory, adult outpatients on chronic opioids with constipation defined by clinical symptoms [<3 SBMs], physician diagnosis, or other study-specific diagnostic criteria) Osmotic or stimulant laxatives Osmotic: PEG PAMORAs: naloxegol, alvimopan, naldemedine, methylnaltrexone Secretagogues: lubiprostone Selective 5HT4 agonist: prucalopride Placebo or usual care or active Comparator SPMs, number per week Lack of straining during defecation BM within prespecified time frame, time to laxation RFBMs Reduction/cessation of laxatives Reduction in painful defecation Stool frequency Stool consistency (BSFS) PAC-QOL PROM AEs leading to treatment discontinuation (ie, allergic reactions, death, cardiac events, abdominal pain, diarrhea, incontinence, nocturnal BMs) Reversal of analgesia or exacerbation of chronic pain Cost-effectiveness RCT Observational studies (for the harm outcome) Systematic review/meta-analysis Open in a new tab Members of the technical review and guideline committee selected patient-important outcomes for each question a priori. The panel rated the relative importance of each outcome for decision making on a scale of 1–10. Outcomes receiving a score of 7–10 were considered critical (for decision making), 4–6 as important (for decision making), and 1–3 less important (for decision making). This initial list of outcomes was then further refined during the evidence review by the technical review panel. Ultimately, the following outcomes were considered critical or important for decision making an

## around safety
an increase from baseline of ≥1 SBM/wk for that week (a positive response week) for at least 9 weeks of the 12-week treatment period and at least 3 of the last 4 weeks of the 12-week treatment period. In the 4-week phase 2b dose-ranging study by Webster et al, 31 OIC was defined as <3 SBMs/wk despite laxative use and ≥1 of the following in ≥25% of BMs: straining, incomplete evacuation, and/or hard/small stools, defined as BSFS score <3. 31 Patients were administered once-daily oral naldemedine: 0.1 mg, 0.2 mg, or 0.4 mg and response to treatment was defined using the standard SBM responder end point, but the response rate was measured over the entire 4 weeks of the study duration. Long-term safety and efficacy of naldemedine (0.2 mg) were evaluated in a 52-week multicenter phase study in patients with OIC and chronic noncancer pain. 32 In this study by Webster et al, OIC was defined as ≤4 SBMs over the 14-day qualifying period and ≤3 SBMs in a given week; only 50% of patients were on a routine laxative regimen (using an over-the-counter laxative at least once per week). The authors reported on AEs over a follow-up period of 52 weeks, as well as change in BM frequency and QOL (using the PAC-QOL). Overall, 318 (52.1%) of 610 patients who received naldemedine had response to therapy compared with 210 (34.6%) of 607 patients who received placebo (over a follow-up period of 12 weeks). Compared with placebo, naldemedine was associated with a higher rate of response (RR, 1.51; 95% CI, 1.32–1.72). Based on a placebo response rate of approximately 35%, if 100 patients were treated with naldemedine, 18 more patients would have response (95% CI, 11 more to 25 more). Naldemedine was associated with an increase in the frequency of SBMs per week; the MD between the naldemedine and placebo groups was an increase of 1.38 (95% CI, 1.03 more to 1.73 more). An SBM was defined as a BM oc

## around adverse
logy, and Nutrition, University of Minnesota, 516 Delaware Street, SE 1-124C, MMC 36, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455. ssultan@umn.edu ; fax: (612) 625-5620. Issue date 2019 Jan. PMC Copyright notice PMCID: PMC6685294 NIHMSID: NIHMS1033315 PMID: 30337104 The publisher's version of this article is available at Gastroenterology Opioid medications are some of the most commonly prescribed medications for acute and chronic pain in the United States. In 2016, nearly 92 million US adults, or approximately 38% of the population, were prescribed opioids, according to results from the National Survey on Drug Use and Health. 1 As a result of the widespread use of opioids, the prevalence of opioid-related adverse effects has increased markedly. Gastrointestinal (GI) side effects, such as nausea, vomiting, gastroesophageal reflux, gastroparesis, anorexia, bloating, abdominal spasms, and constipation, are common and collectively referred to as opioid-induced bowel dysfunction. Of these adverse effects, opioid-induced constipation (OIC) is the most problematic manifestation of opioid-induced bowel dysfunction, as patients rarely develop a tolerance to OIC. 2 Up to one-third of patients may miss or decrease their analgesic medications due to GI side effects, leading to untreated chronic pain and a reduction in health-related quality of life (QOL). 3 , 4 The true prevalence of OIC is unknown, given the failure to recognize OIC as an adverse effect of chronic opioid use and variability in criteria used to diagnose OIC. Reported prevalence rates in the published literature range markedly, from 22% to 81%, depending on the population studied. 5 – 7 Health care utilization and health care costs are higher in patients with OIC. In a retrospective analysis of Medicaid patients with non-cancer pain and OIC, the annual median incremental cost increase over similar patients without constipation w

# Biofeedback_dyssynergia_review
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC4087765/

## around recommend
338546 Fax: +39-45-7950188 Received 2006 Jul 28; Revised 2006 Jul 28; Accepted 2006 Oct 8; Issue date 2006 Nov 28. ©2006 Baishideng Publishing Group Co., Limited. All rights reserved. PMC Copyright notice PMCID: PMC4087765 PMID: 17131466 Abstract Dyssynergic defecation is one of the most common forms of functional constipation both in children and adults; it is defined by incomplete evacuation of fecal material from the rectum due to paradoxical contraction or failure to relax pelvic floor muscles when straining to defecate. This is believed to be a behavioral disorder because there are no associated morphological or neurological abnormalities, and consequently biofeedback training has been recommended for treatment. Biofeedback involves the use of pressure measurements or averaged electromyographic activity within the anal canal to teach patients how to relax pelvic floor muscles when straining to defecate. This is often combined with teaching the patient more appropriate techniques for straining (increasing intra-abdominal pressure) and having the patient practice defecating a water filled balloon. In adults, randomized controlled trials show that this form of biofeedback is more effective than laxatives, general muscle relaxation exercises (described as sham biofeedback), and drugs to relax skeletal muscles. Moreover, its effectiveness is specific to patients who have dyssynergic defecation and not slow transit constipation. However, in children, no clear superiority for biofeedback compared to laxatives has been demonstrated. Based on three randomized controlled studies in the last two years, biofeedback appears to be the preferred treatment for dyssynergic defecation in adults. Keywords: Biofeedback, Constipation, Pelvic floor dyssynergia, Dyssynergic defecation, Functional defecation disorders, Randomized controlled trials INTRODUCTION Chronic constipation is a 

## around strong
threshold volume of balloon distention required to produce a sensation of urge to defecate, although no specific sensory retraining had been provided. Treatment success was predicted by pelvic floor dyssynergia, milder constipation, and less frequent abdominal pain at baseline. This study allowed us to conclude that biofeedback therapy is specifically indicated for dyssynergic defecation and that retraining works through teaching patients to relax the pelvic floor and anal muscles during straining. Since biofeedback therapy is time- consuming, dedicated trained personnel are not easily found, and drug treatments (laxatives, muscle relaxants) are cheaper and more easily available, we were in strong need of a randomized, controlled study to prove that biofeedback is more effective than laxatives or placebo. This need was reinforced by the recent statement of the American College of Gastroenterology’s Chronic Constipation Task Force that osmotic laxatives, namely polyethylene glycol and lactulose, are effective in improving stool frequency and consistency in all patients with chronic constipation[ 31 ]. Recently, three randomized, controlled studies coming from different centers have provided satisfactory answers to this question. The first of them[ 32 ] compared 5 weekly sessions of biofeedback to a commonly prescribed osmotic laxative (polyethylene glycol [PEG] in incremental dosage (14.6-29.2 g/d) given in combination with 5 weekly counseling sessions. Patients with normal transit constipation secondary to dyssynergic defecation were randomized either to the biofeedback (54 patients) or to the laxative group (55 patients). Follow-up assessment extended up to 12 mo in the laxative group and to 24 mo in the biofeedback group. Satisfaction with treatment, symptoms of constipation, and pelvic floor physiology were assessed at pretreatment, every six months in the first ye

## around polyethylene
ne. This study allowed us to conclude that biofeedback therapy is specifically indicated for dyssynergic defecation and that retraining works through teaching patients to relax the pelvic floor and anal muscles during straining. Since biofeedback therapy is time- consuming, dedicated trained personnel are not easily found, and drug treatments (laxatives, muscle relaxants) are cheaper and more easily available, we were in strong need of a randomized, controlled study to prove that biofeedback is more effective than laxatives or placebo. This need was reinforced by the recent statement of the American College of Gastroenterology’s Chronic Constipation Task Force that osmotic laxatives, namely polyethylene glycol and lactulose, are effective in improving stool frequency and consistency in all patients with chronic constipation[ 31 ]. Recently, three randomized, controlled studies coming from different centers have provided satisfactory answers to this question. The first of them[ 32 ] compared 5 weekly sessions of biofeedback to a commonly prescribed osmotic laxative (polyethylene glycol [PEG] in incremental dosage (14.6-29.2 g/d) given in combination with 5 weekly counseling sessions. Patients with normal transit constipation secondary to dyssynergic defecation were randomized either to the biofeedback (54 patients) or to the laxative group (55 patients). Follow-up assessment extended up to 12 mo in the laxative group and to 24 mo in the biofeedback group. Satisfaction with treatment, symptoms of constipation, and pelvic floor physiology were assessed at pretreatment, every six months in the first year, and at 24 mo. At six months, major clinical improvement was reported by 80% of patients in the behavior group versus only 20% in the PEG group. Biofeedback benefits were well sustained for the whole two-year follow-up interval. Clinical benefits correlated well with obje

## around biofeedback
 Biofeedback therapy for dyssynergic defecation - PMC Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Search Log in Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Search… Search NCBI Primary site navigation Search Logged in as: Dashboard Publications Account settings Log in Search PMC Full-Text Archive Search in PMC Journal List User Guide PERMALINK Copy As a library, NLM provides access to scientific literature. Inclusion in an NLM database does not imply endorsement of, or agreement with, the contents by NLM or the National Institutes of Health. Learn more: PMC Disclaimer | PMC Copyright Notice editorial World J Gastroenterol . 2006 Nov 28;12(44):7069–7074. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v12.i44.7069 Search in PMC Search in PubMed View in NLM Catalog Add to search Biofeedback therapy for dyssynergic defecation Giuseppe Chiarioni Gi

## around adverse
k. In addition, biofeedback training requires complex cognitive processing and sustained attention that may be beyond the abilities of younger children. Finally, the quality of the therapist-patient relationship and the skills and experience of the therapist seem to influence the success of behavior therapy, and there is currently a shortage of trained personnel to provide this form of treatment. In conclusion, a series of controlled studies have now shown that functional defecation disorder, one of the most frequent and disabling subtypes of adult constipation, can be treated effectively with biofeedback training. This form of treatment is more effective than laxatives, and it has no known adverse effects. Although this training is relatively expensive to provide, it produces improvements that are sustained for up to two years. For these reasons, we may conclude that biofeedback training is the treatment of choice for functional defecation disorder. Footnotes Supported by grants RO1 DK57048 and R24 DK67674 S- Editor Wang GP L- Editor Kumar M E- Editor Bai SH References 1. Lembo A, Camilleri M. Chronic constipation. N Engl J Med. 2003;349:1360–1368. doi: 10.1056/NEJMra020995. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 2. Surrenti E, Rath DM, Pemberton JH, Camilleri M. Audit of constipation in a tertiary referral gastroenterology practice. Am J Gastroenterol. 1995;90:1471–1475. [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 3. Chiarioni G, Salandini L, Whitehead WE. Biofeedback benefits only patients with outlet dysfunction, not patients with isolated slow transit constipation. Gastroenterology. 2005;129:86–97. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2005.05.015. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 4. Bharucha AE, Wald A, Enck P, Rao S. Functional anorectal disorders. Gastroenterology. 2006;130:1510–1518. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2005.11.064. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 5. Longstreth GF, Thompson WG

# Biofeedback_longterm_RCT
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3910270/

## around recommend
ologist, nurse therapist and dietitian provided advice regarding bowel habits, exercise, laxatives, dietary fiber and fluid intake, and timed-toilet training ( 12 ). This was reinforced by the nurse therapist during follow up visits. All patients were advised to attempt bowel movement for 5 minutes, twice a day, 30 minutes after eating, irrespective of their urge to defecate. The nurse therapist taught subjects how to improve their push effort by using postural and diaphragmatic breathing techniques, and instructed them to practice these maneuvers at home for 15 minutes, three times a day ( 12 ). Magnesium gluconate (Magonate ® 500 mg, Fleming & Company, St. Louis, MO) 2–4 tablets daily was recommended daily as the standard laxative, and subjects were instructed to titrate the dose. All subjects were advised to refrain from using digital maneuvers to assist defecation, and if employed its use was recorded. Patients having no bowel movement for 48 hours were instructed to use one glycerin suppository, then after 72 hours, a tap water enema and after 96 hours two Bisacodyl tablets orally (rescue laxatives). The dietitian advised subjects to consume a balanced, adequate calorie diet, increase fruit and vegetable intake to five servings per day and consume 25 g of dietary fiber from natural food sources daily. After completing their initial treatment for 3 months (short term therapy), subjects were invited to enroll in the long term phase of this study and to return for 3 follow up visits at 3 month intervals with the last scheduled visit at one year after starting therapy. During these one hour follow up visits, their symptoms and bowel habits were assessed and additional advice was provided as needed. All subjects were required to maintain a one week stool diary prior to each visit, which was used for symptom analysis. Manometric and colonic transit measurements and bal

## around polyethylene
3 ) or diazepam ( 14 ) in the management of patients with dyssynergic defecation. However, these trials were short term (3 months), while constipation with dyssynergic defecation is a chronic disorder with a prevalence of symptoms of at least 2 years ( 11 , 13 ). Whether biofeedback therapy is effective in the long-term management of patients with dyssynergic defecation has not been systematically assessed. In two uncontrolled long term studies, biofeedback therapy was felt to improve symptoms ( 15 , 16 ). In the only other long term controlled study, patients with normal colonic transit and dyssynergia were found to show greater improvement in bowel function after biofeedback but not after polyethylene glycol ( 13 ). However, a majority of patients with dyssynergic defecation have coexisting slow transit constipation ( 3 , 7 , 8 , 17 ). Thus, whether biofeedback therapy is effective in the long term management of all subjects with dyssynergic defecation, irrespective of their colonic transit is not known. In this study, we hypothesized that patients with dyssynergic defecation who receive biofeedback therapy will demonstrate greater long-term improvement in bowel symptoms and in colonic and anorectal physiology when compared to those who receive standard therapy. Our aim was to prospectively compare the one year symptomatic and physiologic outcome of biofeedback therapy with standard therapy in patients with constipation and dyssynergic defecation who completed three months of either therapy. Specifically, we tested whether subjects who received biofeedback therapy were more likely to show an increase in the number of complete spontaneous bowel movements and to correct a dyssynergic pattern of defecation when compared to those who received standard therapy. MATERIALS AND METHODS We recruited subjects with chronic constipation who had failed routine management of cons

## around magnesium
cipants gave written informed consent. Standard treatment During an initial visit, a gastroenterologist, nurse therapist and dietitian provided advice regarding bowel habits, exercise, laxatives, dietary fiber and fluid intake, and timed-toilet training ( 12 ). This was reinforced by the nurse therapist during follow up visits. All patients were advised to attempt bowel movement for 5 minutes, twice a day, 30 minutes after eating, irrespective of their urge to defecate. The nurse therapist taught subjects how to improve their push effort by using postural and diaphragmatic breathing techniques, and instructed them to practice these maneuvers at home for 15 minutes, three times a day ( 12 ). Magnesium gluconate (Magonate ® 500 mg, Fleming & Company, St. Louis, MO) 2–4 tablets daily was recommended daily as the standard laxative, and subjects were instructed to titrate the dose. All subjects were advised to refrain from using digital maneuvers to assist defecation, and if employed its use was recorded. Patients having no bowel movement for 48 hours were instructed to use one glycerin suppository, then after 72 hours, a tap water enema and after 96 hours two Bisacodyl tablets orally (rescue laxatives). The dietitian advised subjects to consume a balanced, adequate calorie diet, increase fruit and vegetable intake to five servings per day and consume 25 g of dietary fiber from natural food sources daily. After completing their initial treatment for 3 months (short term therapy), subjects were invited to enroll in the long term phase of this study and to return for 3 follow up visits at 3 month intervals with the last scheduled visit at one year after starting therapy. During these one hour follow up visits, their symptoms and bowel habits were assessed and additional advice was provided as needed. All subjects were required to maintain a one week stool diary prior to each

## around biofeedback
 LONG TERM EFFICACY OF BIOFEEDBACK THERAPY FOR DYSSYNERGIA -RANDOMIZED CONTROLLED TRIAL - PMC Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Search Log in Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Search… Search NCBI Primary site navigation Search Logged in as: Dashboard Publications Account settings Log in Search PMC Full-Text Archive Search in PMC Journal List User Guide PERMALINK Copy As a library, NLM provides access to scientific literature. Inclusion in an NLM database does not imply endorsement of, or agreement with, the contents by NLM or the National Institutes of Health. Learn more: PMC Disclaimer | PMC Copyright Notice Am J Gastroenterol . Author manuscript; available in PMC: 2014 Feb 3. Published in final edited form as: Am J Gastroenterol. 2010 Feb 23;105(4):890–896. doi: 10.1038/ajg.2010.53 Search in PMC Search in PubMed 

# Biofeedback_superior_RCT
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3855426/

## around recommend
lectomy (7 percent) or sigmoid resection (17 percent). 10 The cause of constipation for many patients is unknown and identified as idiopathic constipation. The two primary mechanisms known to cause constipation are slow transit constipation, defined as delayed movement of stool throughout the colon, and pelvic floor dyssynergia, which is defined as impaired ability to evacuate the rectum caused by paradoxical contraction or failure to relax the pelvic floor during attempts to defecate. 11 Pelvic floor dyssynergia is believed to be responsible for up to 50 percent of constipation. 12 , 13 When patients with pelvic floor dyssynergia do not respond to conservative interventions such as dietary recommendations, bowel scheduling, and medications, biofeedback is frequently recommended. 14 Biofeedback utilizes electronically amplified recordings of pelvic floor muscle contraction to teach patients how to relax pelvic floor muscles and to strain more effectively when they defecate. 15 A collaboration between our laboratory and Chiarioni's has established that pelvic floor biofeedback benefits patients with pelvic floor dyssynergia but not patients with slow transit constipation, 16 and in a randomized controlled trial our two groups showed that biofeedback is more effective than the laxative, polyethylene glycol, for treatment of pelvic floor dyssynergia. 17 These studies tested a comprehensive training program that combined instrumented biofeedback with patient education and daily pelvic floor muscle exercises. It is not known whether instrumented biofeedback training ( i.e. , visual or auditory displays of electronically amplified physiologic activity) is necessary vs . whether good patient education alone would be sufficient, as has been suggested by Norton et al . 18 for the treatment of fecal incontinence. The aims of this study were to determine (1) whether biofeedback 

## around polyethylene
ts with pelvic floor dyssynergia do not respond to conservative interventions such as dietary recommendations, bowel scheduling, and medications, biofeedback is frequently recommended. 14 Biofeedback utilizes electronically amplified recordings of pelvic floor muscle contraction to teach patients how to relax pelvic floor muscles and to strain more effectively when they defecate. 15 A collaboration between our laboratory and Chiarioni's has established that pelvic floor biofeedback benefits patients with pelvic floor dyssynergia but not patients with slow transit constipation, 16 and in a randomized controlled trial our two groups showed that biofeedback is more effective than the laxative, polyethylene glycol, for treatment of pelvic floor dyssynergia. 17 These studies tested a comprehensive training program that combined instrumented biofeedback with patient education and daily pelvic floor muscle exercises. It is not known whether instrumented biofeedback training ( i.e. , visual or auditory displays of electronically amplified physiologic activity) is necessary vs . whether good patient education alone would be sufficient, as has been suggested by Norton et al . 18 for the treatment of fecal incontinence. The aims of this study were to determine (1) whether biofeedback is more effective than the muscle relaxant diazepam (5 mg given orally one hour prior to attempted defecation) and also more effective than placebo, and (2) whether instrumented biofeedback is a necessary component of successful training. This was a randomized controlled trial. Methods Patients Patients were recruited from a consecutive series of chronically constipated patients who were referred by their physicians to the University of North Carolina Motility Laboratory between December, 2000 and November, 2004. Referral was for diagnostic testing by anorectal manometry and intra-anal surface elect

## around biofeedback
 Randomized Controlled Trial Shows Biofeedback to be Superior to Alternative Treatments for Patients with Pelvic Floor Dyssynergia-type Constipation - PMC Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Search Log in Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Search… Search NCBI Primary site navigation Search Logged in as: Dashboard Publications Account settings Log in Search PMC Full-Text Archive Search in PMC Journal List User Guide PERMALINK Copy As a library, NLM provides access to scientific literature. Inclusion in an NLM database does not imply endorsement of, or agreement with, the contents by NLM or the National Institutes of Health. Learn more: PMC Disclaimer | PMC Copyright Notice Dis Colon Rectum . Author manuscript; available in PMC: 2013 Dec 7. Published in final edited form as: Dis Colon Rectum. 2009 Oct;52(10):10.1007/DCR.0b013e3181b

## around adverse
 significantly more unassisted bowel movements at follow-up compared to Placebo ( p = .005), with a trend favoring biofeedback over diazepam ( p = .067). Biofeedback patients reduced pelvic floor electromyography during straining significantly more than diazepam patients ( p < 0.001). Conclusions This investigation provides definitive support for the efficacy of biofeedback for pelvic floor dyssynergia and shows that instrumented biofeedback is essential to successful treatment. Keywords: biofeedback, constipation, dyssynergia, dyssynergic defecation, electromyography Introduction Reports of the prevalence of constipation in the US range from 4 percent 1 to 27 percent. 2 Constipation has an adverse effect on quality of life 3 , 4 and is associated with increased work absenteeism 5 and health care costs. 6 , 7 The estimated cost of laxatives alone is over $4 million annually in the United States. 8 Medical management is ineffective in an estimated 89 percent of patients with chronic constipation, 9 and a significant number of these treatment failures seek and receive a subtotal colectomy (7 percent) or sigmoid resection (17 percent). 10 The cause of constipation for many patients is unknown and identified as idiopathic constipation. The two primary mechanisms known to cause constipation are slow transit constipation, defined as delayed movement of stool throughout the colon, and pelvic floor dyssynergia, which is defined as impaired ability to evacuate the rectum caused by paradoxical contraction or failure to relax the pelvic floor during attempts to defecate. 11 Pelvic floor dyssynergia is believed to be responsible for up to 50 percent of constipation. 12 , 13 When patients with pelvic floor dyssynergia do not respond to conservative interventions such as dietary recommendations, bowel scheduling, and medications, biofeedback is frequently recommended. 14 Biofeedbac

# Methane_IMO_constipation
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC11308632/

## around recommend
 small intestine. Symptoms typically associated with SIBO include bloating, abdominal pain, and diarrhea, but prior data have consistently suggested that presenting complaints correlate poorly with a formal SIBO diagnosis by hydrogen breath testing (BT) with either glucose or lactulose. 1 , 2 Increasing attention to exhaled methane (CH 4 ) and its clinical association with constipation has led several practitioners to approach intestinal methanogen overgrowth (IMO), or methane-positive SIBO, as a clinically distinct phenomenon. 3 , 4 Current treatment paradigms are based on relatively small studies that suffer from heterogeneous diagnostic and outcome measures. National consensus guidelines recommend antibiotics as the preferred treatment for SIBO, though optimal regimens have not been established. 4 Various agents and dosing schedules have been used in the past, with the logic that polymicrobial colonies will be at least partially susceptible to multiple antimicrobial agents. 5 Recent research has suggested that the IMO’s phenotypic distinctions imply parallel therapeutic distinctions. A 2010 retrospective study reported that, among patients with CH 4 -positive BT, the combination of rifaximin and neomycin was superior in efficacy to either agent alone (85% vs 63% and 56%, respectively). 6 A 2014 study by the same group randomized 31 patients with irritable bowel syndrome with constipation and CH 4 levels ≥3 ppm on BT to neomycin/placebo or neomycin/rifaximin combination and found that the antibiotic combination was superior to neomycin alone at alleviating constipation and bloating but not abdominal pain. 7 Herein, we report our own institutional experience with SIBO/IMO diagnosis and treatment, comparing the aforementioned antibiotic combination to rifaximin monotherapy. All patients undergoing BT at the University of Pennsylvania from February 2019 to March 2020 w

## around methane
 under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/). PMC Copyright notice PMCID: PMC11308632 PMID: 39130770 This article has been corrected. See Gastro Hep Adv. 2024 Feb 8;3(2):274 . Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) refers to a clinical syndrome of maldigestion associated with excessive or regionally inappropriate bacteria in the small intestine. Symptoms typically associated with SIBO include bloating, abdominal pain, and diarrhea, but prior data have consistently suggested that presenting complaints correlate poorly with a formal SIBO diagnosis by hydrogen breath testing (BT) with either glucose or lactulose. 1 , 2 Increasing attention to exhaled methane (CH 4 ) and its clinical association with constipation has led several practitioners to approach intestinal methanogen overgrowth (IMO), or methane-positive SIBO, as a clinically distinct phenomenon. 3 , 4 Current treatment paradigms are based on relatively small studies that suffer from heterogeneous diagnostic and outcome measures. National consensus guidelines recommend antibiotics as the preferred treatment for SIBO, though optimal regimens have not been established. 4 Various agents and dosing schedules have been used in the past, with the logic that polymicrobial colonies will be at least partially susceptible to multiple antimicrobial agents. 5 Recent research has suggested that the IMO’s phenotypic distinctions imply parallel therapeutic distinctions. A 2010 retrospective study reported that, among patients with CH 4 -positive BT, the combination of rifaximin and neomycin was superior in efficacy to either agent alone (85% vs 63% and 56%, respectively). 6 A 2014 study by the same group randomized 31 patients with irritable bowel syndrome with constipation and CH 4 levels ≥3 ppm on BT to neomycin/placebo or neomycin/rifaximin combination and found that the antibiotic

# Estrobolome_beta_glucuronidase
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10416750/

## around strong
menopause-related diseases ( Table 1 ). Table 1. Specific changes in gut microbiota associated with different estrogen-related diseases and menopause. Disease/model Test sample Related bacteria Specific changes Reference Breast cancer Human Blood Citrobacter* , Bacteroides*, Bifidobacterium* Were 10–100 times higher in cancer patients than in healthy controls; 16 Breast cancer Human nipple aspirate fluid Alistipes* Was the most relatively abundant bacteria genus; 33 Breast cancer Human feces Bacteroides* Was closely related to cancer: every 1% increase in its relative abundance increased the incidence rate of breast cancer by 5%; 34 Breast cancer Human feces Romboutsia,* Coprococcus 2* Were strongest negative correlation with breast cancer: each 1% increase reduced the incidence rate of breast cancer by 91% and 55%, respectively; 34 Breast cancer Human feces Faecalibacterium* Was present in almost 100% of controls and only 90% of both case groups, and was most strongly, inversely associated with odds of breast cancer and nonmalignant breast disease; 34 Breast cancer Human feces Christensenellaceae R -7 group, Dorea* , [ Eubacterium ] coprostanoligenes group* , Pseudobutyrivibrio , Lachnospira Were inversely associated with odds of breast cancer; 34 Breast cancer Human feces Flavonifractor , Ruminococcaceae * Were positively associated with breast cancer; 34 Ovarian cancer Human feces Akkermansia (the unique genus in Verrucomicrobia phylumas) Was remarkably reduced in the ovarian cancer and loss of the Akkermansia genus was a featuring characteristic of patients with ovarian cancer; 35 Ovarian cancer Mice feces Bacteroides* , Lactobacillus* The abundance of Bacteroides was increased but that of Lactobacillus was decreased in ovarian cancer mice; 36 Endometrial cancer Human feces Anaerostipes caccae, Ruminococcus sp.N15.MGS–57 * , Prevotella sp.DJF_LS1653 * Enriched in 

## around safety
potential of reducing breast cancer risk through inhibiting reactivation of estrobolome-associated protein. 100 The effective β-glucuronidase inhibitor D-glucaro-1,4-lactone (1,4-GL) may exert an anti-cancer effect partly through influencing steroidogenesis, 101 and bacterial-specific gmGUS inhibitor TCH-3511 can effectively prevent carcinogen-induced microbial dysbiosis. 102 It has been reported that probiotics and prebiotics decrease estrogen-related cancer risk by suppressing β-glucuronidase activity in the intestine. For example, lactulose and oligofructose-enriched inulin could significantly decrease β-glucuronidase activity, 103 suggesting the feasibility of improving the efficacy and safety of long-term estrogen administration in postmenopausal women and breast cancer patients by manipulating the activity of β-glucuronidase. 42 Recent work established that inhibitors targeted toward gmGUS modulated the function of gut microbiota without adversely influencing the host metabolic system, 104 which indicated its security in the clinical application. In addition, the intestinal side effects of anticancer drugs are expected to be offset by inhibiting β-glucuronidase activity. For example, irinotecan (CPT-11) is an essential anti-cancer drug treating many cancers including gynecological cancers, like endometrial cancer, 105 but its effectiveness is severely limited due to the GI toxicity caused by gmGUS enzymes. 106 , 107 The gmGUS has been regarded as a possible predictive biomarker of irinotecan-induced diarrhea severity. 108 A study has found that inhibiting gmGUS activity with using anti-cancer drugs alleviated GI toxicity without affecting the serum pharmacokinetics of the drug or its metabolites; 109 in addition, it also maintained gut microbiota balance instead of causing cancer-related dysbiosis. 102 For example, TCH-3562 is a specific gmGUS inhibitor that can

## around adverse
 101 and bacterial-specific gmGUS inhibitor TCH-3511 can effectively prevent carcinogen-induced microbial dysbiosis. 102 It has been reported that probiotics and prebiotics decrease estrogen-related cancer risk by suppressing β-glucuronidase activity in the intestine. For example, lactulose and oligofructose-enriched inulin could significantly decrease β-glucuronidase activity, 103 suggesting the feasibility of improving the efficacy and safety of long-term estrogen administration in postmenopausal women and breast cancer patients by manipulating the activity of β-glucuronidase. 42 Recent work established that inhibitors targeted toward gmGUS modulated the function of gut microbiota without adversely influencing the host metabolic system, 104 which indicated its security in the clinical application. In addition, the intestinal side effects of anticancer drugs are expected to be offset by inhibiting β-glucuronidase activity. For example, irinotecan (CPT-11) is an essential anti-cancer drug treating many cancers including gynecological cancers, like endometrial cancer, 105 but its effectiveness is severely limited due to the GI toxicity caused by gmGUS enzymes. 106 , 107 The gmGUS has been regarded as a possible predictive biomarker of irinotecan-induced diarrhea severity. 108 A study has found that inhibiting gmGUS activity with using anti-cancer drugs alleviated GI toxicity without affecting the serum pharmacokinetics of the drug or its metabolites; 109 in addition, it also maintained gut microbiota balance instead of causing cancer-related dysbiosis. 102 For example, TCH-3562 is a specific gmGUS inhibitor that can alleviate irinotecan-induced diarrhea without impairing anti-cancer efficacy in vivo. 110 The gmGUS activity increased by irinotecan can be blocked by the gmGUS inhibitor (gmGUSi). 106 Probiotics and dietary fibers like apple pectin can prevent irinotecan-i

# Mineral_water_constipation
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7400933/

## around recommend
eceived 2020 Jun 8; Accepted 2020 Jul 6; Collection date 2020 Jul. © 2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ). PMC Copyright notice PMCID: PMC7400933 PMID: 32664341 Abstract Functional constipation (FC) is a chronic constipation for which no physiological, anatomical or iatrogenic origin can be evidenced. This condition has a high impact on a patient’s quality of life and healthcare costs. Since FC is frequently associated with low physical activity and a diet low in fiber and/or water, first-line recommendations focus on sufficient activity, and sufficient fiber and water intake. In case of inefficacy of these measures, numerous drug treatments are available, either over the counter or on prescription. Magnesium sulfate has a long history in the treatment of FC, and magnesium sulfate-rich mineral waters have been used for centuries for their laxative properties. The laxative effect of magnesium and sulfate has since been widely demonstrated. Nevertheless, it appears that no clinical studies aiming at demonstrating their efficacy in FC had been conducted before the 21st century. In this paper, we reviewed the clinical data reporting the efficacy of magnesium sulfate-rich natural mineral waters. In view of their reported efficacy and safety, magnesium sulfate-rich natural mineral waters may represent a natural treatment for FC. Keywords: bowel movement, functional constipation, magnesium, mechanism of action, natural mineral water, natural treatment, osmotic effect, sulfate 1. Functional Constipation Functional constipation (FC) is a common condition with a worldwide lifetime prevalence of approximately 14% [ 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 ]. FC is more frequent in females than in males, 

## around polyethylene
distension Lubricants Mineral oils (e.g., paraffin oils) - Lubricate the intestinal wall - Anal irritation, lipoid pneumonia if inhaled Emollients Surfactants (e.g., docusate) - Increase the stool content in water and lipids - Nausea, abdominal cramps Stimulant laxatives e.g., bisacodyl, senna and sodium picosulfate - Stimulate intestinal motility and increase water secretion - Abdominal discomfort, nausea, cramps Osmotic laxatives Saccharides Non-digested fermentable sugars (e.g., lactitol, lactulose, mannitol, pentaerythritol and sorbitol) - Transformed into short chain fatty acids exerting an osmotic effect and acting as prebiotics - Flatulence, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, bloating Polyethylene glycols 3350, 4000 or 6000 g/mol PEGs - Do not cross the intestinal barrier and retain water in the intestine - Nausea, abdominal distension, cramps Magnesium oxide MgO - Low intestinal absorption, osmotic effect - Hypermagnesemia Probiotics e.g., lactobacilli, bifidobacteria - Probably modification of the gut microbiota and production of short chain fatty acids Not reported Open in a new tab 2.2.1. Bulk Laxatives Bulk laxatives act by increasing the volume of stools using their high hydrophilic power. They are extracts of algae, gums or greases, and include psyllium, calcium polycarbophil, bran and methylcellulose. Increased stool volume induces intestinal peristaltic reflex and allows a better sphincter reflex. 2.2.2. Lubricants and Emollients Lubricants are nontoxic mineral oils (e.g., paraffin oils) that are not absorbed by the intestinal epithelium. They lubricate the intestinal wall and improve the passage of stools. Emollients are surfactants (e.g., docusate) that increase the stool content in water and lipids. Emollients and lubricants soften stools and decrease intestinal water reabsorption. 2.2.3. Stimulant Laxatives Stimulant laxatives directly act by stimul

## around psyllium
ey all aim to increase the weight and/or volume of the stools, which increases intestinal contractions. Their major side effects can be increased flatulence, abdominal distension and abdominal pain, mainly observed for bulk laxatives and saccharides. Please refer to the respective summary of product characteristics of each individual treatment for detailed information concerning its indications, contraindications, and undesirable effects. Table 2. Summary of the current treatments for functional constipation. Active Compound Mechanisms of Action Major Undesirable Effects First line recommendations / - Lifestyle changes and nutritional-hygienic measures / Drug treatments Bulk laxatives e.g., psyllium, calcium polycarbophil, bran, methylcellulose - Increase stool volume due to their high hydrophilic power - Flatulence and abdominal distension Lubricants Mineral oils (e.g., paraffin oils) - Lubricate the intestinal wall - Anal irritation, lipoid pneumonia if inhaled Emollients Surfactants (e.g., docusate) - Increase the stool content in water and lipids - Nausea, abdominal cramps Stimulant laxatives e.g., bisacodyl, senna and sodium picosulfate - Stimulate intestinal motility and increase water secretion - Abdominal discomfort, nausea, cramps Osmotic laxatives Saccharides Non-digested fermentable sugars (e.g., lactitol, lactulose, mannitol, pentaerythritol and sorbitol) - Transformed into short chain fatty acids exerting an osmotic effect and acting as prebiotics - Flatulence, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, bloating Polyethylene glycols 3350, 4000 or 6000 g/mol PEGs - Do not cross the intestinal barrier and retain water in the intestine - Nausea, abdominal distension, cramps Magnesium oxide MgO - Low intestinal absorption, osmotic effect - Hypermagnesemia Probiotics e.g., lactobacilli, bifidobacteria - Probably modification of the gut microbiota and production of shor

## around magnesium
 Magnesium Sulfate-Rich Natural Mineral Waters in the Treatment of Functional Constipation–A Review - PMC Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Search Log in Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Search… Search NCBI Primary site navigation Search Logged in as: Dashboard Publications Account settings Log in Search PMC Full-Text Archive Search in PMC Journal List User Guide PERMALINK Copy As a library, NLM provides access to scientific literature. Inclusion in an NLM database does not imply endorsement of, or agreement with, the contents by NLM or the National Institutes of Health. Learn more: PMC Disclaimer | PMC Copyright Notice Nutrients . 2020 Jul 10;12(7):2052. doi: 10.3390/nu12072052 Search in PMC Search in PubMed View in NLM Catalog Add to search Magnesium Sulfate-Rich Natural Mineral Waters in t

## around methane
2-0241.2005.00230.x. [ DOI ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 26. Gerritsen J., Timmerman H.M., Fuentes S., Van Minnen L.P., Panneman H., Konstantinov S.R., Rombouts F.M., Gooszen H.G., Akkermans L.M.A., Smidt H., et al. Correlation between Protection against Sepsis by Probiotic Therapy and Stimulation of a Novel Bacterial Phylotype. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 2011;77:7749–7756. doi: 10.1128/AEM.05428-11. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 27. Parthasarathy G., Chen J., Chen X., Chia N., O’Connor H.M., Wolf P.G., Gaskins H.R., Bharucha A.E. Faculty Opinions recommendation of Relationship between microbiota of the colonic mucosa vs feces and symptoms, colonic transit, and methane production in female patients with chronic constipation. Gastroenterology. 2016;150:367–379. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2015.10.005. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 28. Wu G.D., Chen J., Hoffmann C., Bittinger K., Chen Y.-Y., Keilbaugh S.A., Bewtra M., Knights D., Walters W.A., Knight R., et al. Linking Long-Term Dietary Patterns with Gut Microbial Enterotypes. Science. 2011;334:105–108. doi: 10.1126/science.1208344. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 29. Callen J. Inventor. Magnesia, Medicated, Liquid. X2952. USA patent. 1818 May 4; 30. Wood H.C. Catharctics. Therapeutics. Its Principles and Practice. Lippincott; New York, NY, USA: 1908. [ Google Scholar ] 31. Constant F., Morali A., Arnaud M.J., Delabroise A.M., Thirion F., Matisse N., Wagner M., Dohm J.P., Vuillemin J.L., Gay G. Treatment of idiopathic constipation in infants: Comparative and randomized study of two mineral waters (60 cases) J. Pediatr. Gastroenterol. Nutr. 1999;28:551. doi: 10.1097/00005176-199905000-00052. [ DOI ] [ Google Scholar ] 32. Dupont C., Campagne A., Constant F. Efficacy and safety of a magnesium sulfate-rich natural mineral water for patients wit

## around safety
sufficient fiber and water intake. In case of inefficacy of these measures, numerous drug treatments are available, either over the counter or on prescription. Magnesium sulfate has a long history in the treatment of FC, and magnesium sulfate-rich mineral waters have been used for centuries for their laxative properties. The laxative effect of magnesium and sulfate has since been widely demonstrated. Nevertheless, it appears that no clinical studies aiming at demonstrating their efficacy in FC had been conducted before the 21st century. In this paper, we reviewed the clinical data reporting the efficacy of magnesium sulfate-rich natural mineral waters. In view of their reported efficacy and safety, magnesium sulfate-rich natural mineral waters may represent a natural treatment for FC. Keywords: bowel movement, functional constipation, magnesium, mechanism of action, natural mineral water, natural treatment, osmotic effect, sulfate 1. Functional Constipation Functional constipation (FC) is a common condition with a worldwide lifetime prevalence of approximately 14% [ 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 ]. FC is more frequent in females than in males, with a 2/1 sex ratio. It is also associated with increasing age, lower socioeconomic status, low physical activity, low fiber intake and low water intake, but also with low magnesium intake [ 6 , 7 ]. It is associated with a high impact on patients’ quality of life, and high healthcare and other indirect costs [ 8 , 9 , 10 ]. From a general point of view, constipation can be defined simply as the too rare output of too hard stools (i.e., type 1 or 2 on the Bristol Scale of Fecal Consistency) [ 11 ]. More precisely, constipation corresponds to difficult, infrequent, or incomplete defecation. However, these definitions cover a wide range of very different conditions with very different etiologies and/or pathophysiologies. FC corresponds to co

## around adverse
 Hépar was associated with a decreased number of lumpy or hard stools, without any increase in the number of fluffy or liquid stools. In addition, patients using 1 L/day Hépar dramatically decreased their use of rescue laxatives. At week 4, 19.7% patients of the placebo group used PEG versus 2.8% in the Hépar group ( p = 0.001). Data showed that the proportion of responders to the treatment was correlated to the weekly Mg 2 + and SO 4 2- osmolarity of the treatment. Study discontinuation was reported for 9/82 patients in the 1 L Hépar group vs. 8/77 patients in the placebo group. Compliance to the treatment was 101.6% ± 13.6% of the theoretical consumption in the 1 L Hépar group. No serious adverse events (AEs) were reported. Two cases of diarrhea related to the treatment were reported in the Hépar group vs. two patients in the placebo group. The third clinical study of the efficacy of Hépar in FC focused on the analysis of time to treatment response [ 33 ]. Inclusion and efficacy criteria were the same as in the first study. The efficacy of this magnesium sulfate-rich mineral water was confirmed by this study including 226 patients, 80.8% with mild constipation and 19.2% with moderate constipation. After two weeks, the proportion of responders was 50% in the patients using Hépar versus 29% in the placebo group ( p = 0.001). In addition, this study showed that response to the treatment was reached in a mean of 6.4 days following treatment initiation. Study discontinuation was reported for 3/113 patients in the Hépar group and 2/113 in the placebo group. Compliance to the treatment was 93.4% ± 10.8% of the theoretical consumption in the 1 L Hépar group. One case of abdominal bloating and one case of meteorism were related to the treatment, in the Hépar group. 3.2. Ensinger Schiller Quelle Ensinger Schiller Quelle (Ensinger Mineral-Heilquellen, Germany) is a magnesium s

# Magnesium_oxide_RCT
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6786451/

## around recommend
 intestine. It absorbs water from the intestinal walls and the intestinal content expands from the water. This intestinal stimulation is then thought to induce bowel movement. As MgO can lead to hypermagnesemia in elderly people and patients with impaired renal function, the serum magnesium level needs to be measured regularly. However, MgO is inexpensive, the dose can be easily adjusted, and it is non-habit forming. Thus, it is currently the most frequently used medicine and is considered a superior, easy-to-use laxative for any patient. In the constipation clinical practice guidelines in Japan, prescription of osmotic laxatives and drugs that alter epithelial function is the most strongly recommended for the treatment of CC. 12 These drugs are highly regarded with evidence level A, and are the first-line treatment for constipation. However, aside from a report published in the 1990s that examined the effect of MgO in an open-label physician-led questionnaire investigation, to date, no randomized clinical trials have examined the use of MgO. 13 Therefore, in the present study, we evaluate the therapeutic effects of MgO in an objective and scientific manner, using a patient self-administered questionnaire. The findings obtained from this study are also important from a clinical perspective, since patient-reported outcome (PRO) evaluations were performed with appropriate measures to exclude bias whenever possible. 14 , 15 Materials and Methods Study Design This placebo-controlled double-blind study was conducted at a single center. We recruited 34 patients with functional constipation (FC) who visited the outpatient department of our hospital between September 2017 and April 2018. 16 After written informed consent was obtained from all patients, they were randomly assigned to receive either MgO (MgO group; 17 patients, 0.5 g MgO/capsule orally) or placebo (placebo grou

## around strong
the small intestine. It absorbs water from the intestinal walls and the intestinal content expands from the water. This intestinal stimulation is then thought to induce bowel movement. As MgO can lead to hypermagnesemia in elderly people and patients with impaired renal function, the serum magnesium level needs to be measured regularly. However, MgO is inexpensive, the dose can be easily adjusted, and it is non-habit forming. Thus, it is currently the most frequently used medicine and is considered a superior, easy-to-use laxative for any patient. In the constipation clinical practice guidelines in Japan, prescription of osmotic laxatives and drugs that alter epithelial function is the most strongly recommended for the treatment of CC. 12 These drugs are highly regarded with evidence level A, and are the first-line treatment for constipation. However, aside from a report published in the 1990s that examined the effect of MgO in an open-label physician-led questionnaire investigation, to date, no randomized clinical trials have examined the use of MgO. 13 Therefore, in the present study, we evaluate the therapeutic effects of MgO in an objective and scientific manner, using a patient self-administered questionnaire. The findings obtained from this study are also important from a clinical perspective, since patient-reported outcome (PRO) evaluations were performed with appropriate measures to exclude bias whenever possible. 14 , 15 Materials and Methods Study Design This placebo-controlled double-blind study was conducted at a single center. We recruited 34 patients with functional constipation (FC) who visited the outpatient department of our hospital between September 2017 and April 2018. 16 After written informed consent was obtained from all patients, they were randomly assigned to receive either MgO (MgO group; 17 patients, 0.5 g MgO/capsule orally) or placebo (pla

## around magnesium
 A Randomized Double-blind Placebo-controlled Trial on the Effect of Magnesium Oxide in Patients With Chronic Constipation - PMC Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Search Log in Dashboard Publications Account settings Log out Search… Search NCBI Primary site navigation Search Logged in as: Dashboard Publications Account settings Log in Search PMC Full-Text Archive Search in PMC Journal List User Guide PERMALINK Copy As a library, NLM provides access to scientific literature. Inclusion in an NLM database does not imply endorsement of, or agreement with, the contents by NLM or the National Institutes of Health. Learn more: PMC Disclaimer | PMC Copyright Notice J Neurogastroenterol Motil . 2019 Oct 30;25(4):563–575. doi: 10.5056/jnm18194 Search in PMC Search in PubMed View in NLM Catalog Add to search A Randomized Double-blind Placebo-controlled Trial on the Effect of Magnesium

## around linaclotide
CSS questionnaire evaluated the number of bowel movements, difficulty in defecating, sensation of incomplete evacuation, abdominal pain, defecation time, presence or absence of assistance with defecation, number of failed attempts to defecate despite toileting, and duration of defecation disorder based on a 5 stage scale. 20 The results of these evaluations were used to compare the effect of MgO versus placebo in the 2 groups. Sample Size Determination To date, 2 studies have detailed overall symptom improvement of constipation with MgO and reported a 90% symptom improvement rate. 13 The overall symptom improvement effects of other agents relative to placebo were recently reported as 17.5% (linaclotide) 32 and 29.4% (lubiprostone). 33 Since the proportions of placebo and MgO responders for overall improvement were expected to be 20.0% and 70.0%, respectively, and the additive effect was expected to be 50.0%, a sample size of 30 (15 patients in each arm) was calculated to provide a one-sided level of significance of 5.0% and a detection power of 80.0%. Allowing for the dropout of 4 subjects (2 subjects per group), a grand total of 34 subjects were included in this study. Statistical Methods All results are expressed as mean ± standard deviation. Paired t test, Mann-Whitney U test and Fisher’s exact test and analysis of covariance were used for comparison of the 2 groups. Statistical significance was defined as a value of P < 0.05. Statistical analysis was performed using JMP version 13 (JMP Pro; SAS Institute Inc, State of North Carolina, IL, USA). Results Enrollment and Baseline Characteristics of the Patients The 34 enrolled patients with CC were randomly allocated to the MgO group or placebo group (n = 17 each). Of the randomized subjects, we analyzed the data from 33 patients, since 1 patient who failed to complete the medication regimen was excluded from the final

## around lubiprostone
 the number of bowel movements, difficulty in defecating, sensation of incomplete evacuation, abdominal pain, defecation time, presence or absence of assistance with defecation, number of failed attempts to defecate despite toileting, and duration of defecation disorder based on a 5 stage scale. 20 The results of these evaluations were used to compare the effect of MgO versus placebo in the 2 groups. Sample Size Determination To date, 2 studies have detailed overall symptom improvement of constipation with MgO and reported a 90% symptom improvement rate. 13 The overall symptom improvement effects of other agents relative to placebo were recently reported as 17.5% (linaclotide) 32 and 29.4% (lubiprostone). 33 Since the proportions of placebo and MgO responders for overall improvement were expected to be 20.0% and 70.0%, respectively, and the additive effect was expected to be 50.0%, a sample size of 30 (15 patients in each arm) was calculated to provide a one-sided level of significance of 5.0% and a detection power of 80.0%. Allowing for the dropout of 4 subjects (2 subjects per group), a grand total of 34 subjects were included in this study. Statistical Methods All results are expressed as mean ± standard deviation. Paired t test, Mann-Whitney U test and Fisher’s exact test and analysis of covariance were used for comparison of the 2 groups. Statistical significance was defined as a value of P < 0.05. Statistical analysis was performed using JMP version 13 (JMP Pro; SAS Institute Inc, State of North Carolina, IL, USA). Results Enrollment and Baseline Characteristics of the Patients The 34 enrolled patients with CC were randomly allocated to the MgO group or placebo group (n = 17 each). Of the randomized subjects, we analyzed the data from 33 patients, since 1 patient who failed to complete the medication regimen was excluded from the final analysis. Thus, data from 

## around safety
ion: new diagnostic and treatment approaches. Therap Adv Gastroenterol. 2012;5:233–247. doi: 10.1177/1756283X12443093. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 9. Tillou J, Poylin V. Functional disorders: slow-transit constipation. Clin Colon Rectal Surg. 2017;30:76–86. doi: 10.1055/s-0036-1593436. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 10. Alame AM, Bahna H. Evaluation of constipation. Clin Colon Rectal Surg. 2012;25:5–11. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1301753. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 11. Ministry of Health, Labour and Walfare. Hypermagnesaemia caused by magnesium oxide. [accessed 3 Sep 2019];Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Safety Information. 2015 328:5–8. Available from URL: https://www.pmda.go.jp/english/safety/info-services/drugs/medical-safety-information/0013.html . [ Google Scholar ] 12. The Japanese Society of Gastroenterology. Research society for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Constipation, Affiliated to The Japanese Society of Gastroenterology in Japanese. 2017 ed. Tokyo: Nankodo Co, Ltd.; 2017. Evidence-based Clinical Practice Guidelines for Chronic Constipation. [ Google Scholar ] 13. Sakimura K, Machino H, Miyoshi K, et al. Clinical evaluation of YO-106 (magnesium oxide tablets) in the treatment of habitual constipation–a cross over study with magnesium oxide powders. Jpn Pharmacol Ther. 1998;26:1027–1053. [ Google Scholar ] 14. Basch E, Rogak LJ, Dueck AC. Methods for implementing and reporting patient-reported outcome (PRO) measures of symptomatic adverse events in cancer clinical trials. Clin Ther. 2016;38:821–830. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2016.03.011. [ DOI ] [ PMC free article ] [ PubMed ] [ Google Scholar ] 15. Donovan JL, Hamdy FC, Lane JA, et al. Patient-reported outcomes after monitoring, surgery, or radiotherapy for prostate cancer. N Engl J Med. 2016;375:1425–1437. doi

## around adverse
linical effect of a drug while eliminating psychological factors requires comparisons with a placebo. In recent years, the concept of PRO has been spreading mainly in Western countries and it has become an essential part of clinical studies and future diagnostics; the importance of PRO has been recognized even in the diagnosis and treatment of gastroenterological diseases. 14 , 15 PRO is an approach in which the patient himself/herself directly evaluates the usefulness of a treatment. In the present study, it was meaningful to evaluate the efficacy of the drug by obtaining complete questionnaires from the patients with constipation. MgO is an osmotic laxative that is low in cost and has few adverse effects. In Japan, it is used as a first-line drug in actual clinical practice. It is minimally absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract, raises the osmotic pressure in the intestinal tract, and increases the frequency of defecation by causing water secretion in the lumen of the intestinal tract. Presently, it is recommended as a first priority according to the 2017 Japanese guidelines for diagnosis and treatment of chronic constipation as 1, with an evidence level of A. 12 However, since there has not been a large-scale clinical trial on MgO within or outside of Japan to date, the recommendation grade according to the ACG diagnosis and treatment guidelines remains B. 34 For this reason, this study has clinical significance since it is the first study to compare the therapeutic effect of MgO with a placebo drug and to examine it objectively. In this study, we first examined the number of SBM and CSBM before and after administering MgO. With respect to SBM, it was reported in clinical studies involving Japanese subjects that the administration of lubiprostone and linaclotide significantly increases the number of bowel movements compared to placebo administration. 28 , 35 , 36 
