## PMID 39652636 (2025) Adipose Tissue Biology and Effect of Weight Loss in Women With Lipedema.
Journal: Diabetes
DOI: 10.2337/db24-0890
Abstract: Lipedema is a lipodystrophic disease that is typically characterized by a marked increase in lower-body subcutaneous adipose tissue that is purported to have increased inflammation and fibrosis, have impaired microvascular/lymphatic circulation, and be resistant to reduction by weight loss therapy. However, these outcomes have not been adequately studied. We evaluated body composition, insulin sensitivity, metabolic health, and adipose tissue biology in women with obesity and lipedema (Obese-LIP) before and after moderate (∼9%) diet-induced weight loss. At baseline, people with Obese-LIP had ∼23% greater leg fat mass, ∼11% lower android-to-gynoid ratio, and ∼48% greater insulin sensitivity (all P < 0.05) than women matched on age, BMI, and whole-body adiposity. In Obese-LIP, macrophage content and expression of genes involved in inflammation and fibrosis were greater, whereas lymph/angiogenesis-related genes were lower in thigh than abdominal subcutaneous adipose tissue. Weight loss improved insulin sensitivity and decreased total fat mass, with similar relative reductions in abdominal and leg fat masses, but without changes in markers of inflammation and fibrosis. These results demonstrate that affected adipose tissue in women with lipedema is characterized by increased inflammation and fibrogenesis, and alterations in lymphatic and vascular biology. Moderate diet-induced weight loss improves metabolic function and decreases lower-body adipose tissue mass. We sought to increase our understanding of the pathophysiology of lipedema and the effects of weight loss. We examined whether there are differences in upper- and lower-body adipose tissue biology in lipedema and whether adipose tissue is affected by weight loss. Women with obesity and lipedema have decreased expression of genes related to lymphatic/vascular function and increased expression of genes related to fibrosis and inflammation in thigh compared with abdominal subcutaneous adipose tissue; weight loss increased insulin sensitivity and decreased leg fat but did not affect adipose tissue inflammation or fibrosis. Weight loss should be the first-line therapy for women with obesity and lipedema.

## PMID 32139870 (2020) Lymphatic drainage affects lipolytic activity of femoral adipose tissue in women.
Journal: International journal of obesity (2005)
DOI: 10.1152/ajpendo.2001.280.6.E1000
Abstract: It has been shown that many molecules released by adipose tissue (AT) into interstitial fluid can reach the bloodstream preferentially via lymphatic system. Worsened lymphatic drainage may alter interstitial fluid (ISF) composition and thus affect microenvironment of adipocytes. Nevertheless, the effect of lymphatic drainage on AT functions remains unknown. Therefore, we analyzed the lipolytic activity of femoral AT in two groups of premenopausal women similar in adiposity but differing in the efficiency of lymphatic drainage of lower body as assessed by lymphoscintigraphy. Levels of lipolytic markers were assessed in plasma and ISF collected by skin blister technique in femoral area. In addition, microdialysis was used to monitor lipolysis of AT in vivo. Our results indicate that worsened lymphatic drainage is associated with lower in vivo lipolytic index and reduced lipolytic responsiveness of femoral AT to adrenergic stimuli. Thus, efficiency of lymphatic drainage appears to play a role in the regulation of AT metabolism. Accordingly, worsened lymphatic drainage could contribute to the resistance of lower body AT to intentional weigh loss.

## PMID 40710038 (2025) A Case Series on the Efficacy of the Pharmacological Treatment of Lipedema: The Italian Experience with Exenatide.
Journal: Clinics and practice
DOI: 10.1097/GOX.0000000000003553
Abstract: Background: Lipedema is a chronic disease of subcutaneous adipose tissue that predominantly affects women and is frequently associated with endocrinopathies such as insulin resistance and obesity. Its pathogenesis is still unclear, and treatment, which requires a multi-disciplinary approach, is prolonged over time and is not always effective. There is currently no drug treatment available for this disease. Methods: Five different cases of women with lipedema and insulin resistance, treated with Glucagon-Like Peptide-1 Receptor Agonists (GLP-1 RAs) and once-weekly exenatide, in association or not with lifestyle changes (diet or physical activity) for 3 to 6 months are described. Changes in anthropometric parameters, symptoms, clinical findings and the thickness of superficial adipose tissue measured by ultrasound were evaluated. Results: Treatment with exenatide, whether combined with a change in diet or physical activity, resulted in a reduction in the characteristic symptoms of lipedema, in pain evoked by pinching the adipose tissue fold and in the thickness of subcutaneous adipose tissue at the levels of the lower limbs, abdomen and upper limbs. In four out of five cases, a reduction in body weight was observed, particularly during the first three months of treatment and in cases with greater metabolic impairment. Clinical, instrumental and subjective improvements were also observed in cases where there was no reduction in body weight and in patients who had previously undergone lower limb liposuction. Conclusions: The improvement in symptoms and clinical signs of lipedema, in addition to the reduction in adipose tissue in patients with lipedema and insulin resistance with exenatide, suggests a novel pharmacological approach to the disease, which can be combined with other conservative and surgical treatments to promote weight reduction. These results also highlight the association of this disease with metabolic alterations and the fundamental role of an accurate diagnosis followed by the treatment of comorbidities and excess weight in these patients.

## PMID 39525887 (2024) Transcriptomics of Subcutaneous Tissue of Lipedema Identified Differentially Expressed Genes Involved in Adipogenesis, Inflammation, and Pain.
Journal: Plastic and reconstructive surgery. Global open
DOI: 10.1097/GOX.0000000000006288
Abstract: Lipedema is a disease typically affecting women with a symmetrical, painful fat distribution disorder, which is hypothesized to be caused by impaired adipogenesis, inflammation, and extracellular matrix remodeling, leading to fibrosis and the development of edema in lipedema subcutaneous adipose tissue. The pathogenesis and molecular processes leading to lipedema have not yet been clarified. A whole transcriptome analysis of subcutaneous tissue of lipedema stages I (n = 12), II (n = 9), and III (n = 8) compared with hypertrophied subcutaneous tissue (n = 4) was performed. Further data about hormonal substitution and body morphology were collected. The study is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT05861583). We identified several differentially expressed genes involved in mechanisms leading to the development of lipedema. Some genes, such as PRKG2, MEDAG, CSF1R, BICC1, ERBB4, and ACP5, are involved in adipogenesis, regulating the development of mature adipocytes from mesenchymal stem cells. Other genes, such as MAFB, C1Q, C2, CD68, CD209, CD163, CD84, BCAT1, and TREM2, are predicted to be involved in lipid accumulation, hypertrophy, and the inflammation process. Further genes such as SHTN1, SCN7A, and SCL12A2 are predicted to be involved in the regulation and transmission of pain. In summary, the pathogenesis and development of lipedema might be caused by alterations in adipogenesis, inflammation, and extracellular matrix remodeling, leading to fibrosis and the formation of edema resulting in this painful disease. These processes differ from hypertrophied adipose tissue and may therefore play a main role in the formation of lipedema.

## PMID 33297826 (2021) The Effects of Complete Decongestive Therapy or Intermittent Pneumatic Compression Therapy or Exercise Only in the Treatment of Severe Lipedema: A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Journal: Lymphatic research and biology
DOI: 10.1089/lrb.2020.0019
Abstract: Background: Lack of diagnostic awareness of lipedema and frequent confusion with obesity or lymphedema may be an obstacle for treatment. The clinical effects of conservative treatment methods are not clearly known. This study investigated the effects of exercise-based rehabilitation combined with complete decongestive therapy (CDT) or intermittent pneumatic compression therapy (IPCT) or alone in patients with severe lipedema. Methods: Thirty-three women with severe (type 3, stage III or IV) lipedema diagnosed according to the revised-Wold criteria were randomized into three groups: Group 1 (CDT plus exercises), Group 2 (IPCT plus exercises), and Group 3 (control-exercises alone). All groups received 30 sessions of combined (aerobic, strengthening, and stretching) exercise program. In addition, there were CDT in Group 1 and IPCT in Group 2 five times a week for 6 weeks. The primary outcome measure was the limb volume measurements. The secondary outcome measures were anthropometric measurements (body weight, body mass index, waist-to-height ratio, waist-to-hip ratio), 6-minute walk test, visual analog scale for pain, fatigue severity scale, Beck Depression Inventory, and Short Form Health Survey-36 (SF-36). Results: Thirty-one participants completed the interventions. Limb volumes (p = 0.017, ηp2 = 0.562 for right; p < 0.001, ηp2 = 0.775 for left), pain (p = 0.045, ηp2 = 0.199), and physical functioning subscore of SF-36 (p = 0.040, ηp2 = 0.465) differed significantly between treatments originating from Group 1. Conclusions: All programs improved outcome measurements after the intervention. However, when the difference between treatments was investigated, CDT administered in addition to the exercises has been shown to provide significant improvements in reducing limb volumes, pain, and physical function. Clinical trial registration number: The study was registered at the US National Institutes of Health (ClinicalTrials.gov) (NCT03924999) and available at https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03924999?term=lipedema&draw=2&rank=6.

## PMID 35949278 (2022) Effect of a ketogenic diet on pain and quality of life in patients with lipedema: The LIPODIET pilot study.
Journal: Obesity science & practice
DOI: 10.1177/1559827617742108
Abstract: Lipedema is an underdiagnosed condition in women, characterized by a symmetrical increase in subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) in the lower extremities, sparing the trunk. The lipedema SAT has been found to be resistant to diet, exercise and bariatric surgery, in regard to both weight loss (WL) and symptom relief. Current experience indicates that a low carbohydrate and high fat (LCHF-diet) might have a beneficial effect on weight and symptom management in lipedema. To assess the impact of an eucaloric low carbohydrate, high fat (LCHF)-diet on pain and quality of life (QoL) in patients with lipedema. Women diagnosed with lipedema, including all types and stages affecting the legs, (age 18-75 years, BMI 30-45 kg/m2) underwent 7 weeks of LCHF-diet and, thereafter 6 weeks of a diet following the Nordic nutrition recommendations. Pain (visual analog scale) and QoL (questionnaire for lymphedema of the limbs), weight and body composition were measured at baseline, week seven and 13. Nine women (BMI: 36.7 ± 4.5 kg/m2 and age: 46.9 ± 7 years) were recruited. The LCHF diet induced a significant WL -4.6 ± 0.7 kg (-4.5 ± 2.4%), p < 0.001 for both, and reduction in pain (-2.3 ± 0.4 cm, p = 0.020). No correlation was found between WL and changes in pain at week seven (r = 0.283, p = 0.460). WL was maintained between week seven and 13 (0.3 ± 0.7 kg, p = 0.430), but pain returned to baseline levels at week 13 (4.2 ± 0.7 cm, p = 0.690). A significant increase in general QoL was found between baseline and week seven (1.0 (95% CI (2.0, 0.001)), p = 0.050) and 13 (1.0 95% CI (2.0, 0.001) p = 0.050), respectively. A LCHF-diet is associated with reduction in perceived pain and improvement in QoL, in patients with lipedema. Larger randomized clinical trials are needed to confirm these findings.

## PMID 3019701 (1986) Increased alpha 2- but similar beta-adrenergic receptor activities in subcutaneous gluteal adipocytes from females compared with males.
Journal: European journal of clinical investigation
DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2362.1986.tb01346.x
Abstract: alpha 2 and beta-adrenergic binding and action were studied in subcutaneous adipocytes from the gluteal region in females and males. The beta-selective antagonist [3H]dihydroalprenolol and the alpha 2-selective antagonist [3H]yohimbine were used to identify the beta- and the alpha 2-receptor, respectively. The biological effects mediated by these receptors were determined by measuring the glycerol release induced by isoproterenol (beta-receptor agonist) and by clonidine (alpha 2-receptor agonist). The study consisted of health volunteers (eighteen females and fifteen males). Compared to men the alpha 2-receptor binding was increased by 73% (P less than 0.01) in adipocytes from females. From Scatchard analysis it was determined that the increased binding was due to an increased receptor number (438 v. 262 fmol mg-1 protein, P less than 0.001) with unaltered Kd (1.18 v. 1.35 nmol l-1, P greater than 0.05). This increased alpha 2-receptor binding in female and adipocytes was associated with a significantly increased sensitivity (P less than 0.05) and maximal antilipolytic effect of clonidine (P less than 0.05). The beta-receptor binding was similar in adipocytes from females and males. However, isoproterenol was significantly more lipolytic in female adipocytes (P less than 0.01). Since the combination of theophylline and adenosine deaminase also was significantly more lipolytic in female adipocytes the enhanced effect of isoproterenol then seemed to be due to mechanisms not directly related to the hormone-beta-receptor binding. Finally, the mixed beta- and alpha 2-receptor agonist, adrenaline showed biphasic effects on lipolysis, with stimulatory effect at low concentrations (less than 500 nmol l-1) and pronounced inhibitory effect at higher concentrations (greater than 1 mumol l-1).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
